Why do blood sugars become elevated in the afternoon?

Intermittent fasting is a type of eating schedule where a person doesn't eat any calories for a period of time. Time-restricted feeding is a form of intermittent fasting that involves having a longer daily fasting period.
Early studies report that time-restricted feeding improves the health of the heart and metabolism in rodents and humans.
In this study, researchers perform the first study to determine how time-restricted feeding affects how information from genes are used, how circulating hormones that travel in blood and attach to cells can change the cell function, and how daily patterns in the heart and metabolism can be risk factors in humans.
Eleven overweight adults participated in a 4-day study where they ate between 8 am and 2 pm (early time-restricted feeding) and between 8 am and 8 pm (control group for comparison).
Participants have their sugar continuously monitored, and blood is drawn to assess risk factors to the heart and metabolism, hormones, and gene development in blood cells.
Relative to the comparison group's schedule, early time-restricted feeding decreased the average 24-hour sugar levels and changes in blood sugar.
In the morning before breakfast, early time-restricted feeding increased ketones (substances that the body makes if cells don't get enough blood sugar), cholesterol, and the activity of the stress response and aging gene SIRT1 and the gene LC3A that cleans out damaged cells. While in the evening, time-restricted feeding tends to increase brain-derived neurotropic factor, which is a helpful protein in the spinal cord and brain, and also increases the expansion of the MTOR gene, a major nutrient-sensing protein that regulates cell growth.
Early time-restricted feeding changes daily patterns in the cortisol stress hormone and use of several genes.
Early time-restricted feeding improves 24 hour blood sugar levels, changes how fats are broken down, and how gene functions are used. Early time-restricted feeding may also increase cleaning of damaged cells and anti-aging effects in humans.
