Why do blood sugars become elevated in the afternoon?

People with Type 1 diabetes are vulnerable to developing low blood sugar, also called hypoglycemia, during and after continuous moderate-level exercise, but they are also at risk of high blood sugar (hyperglycemia) during periodic high-intensity exercise.
The combination of both moderate and high-intensity exercise may have an effect on blood sugar levels.
The aims of this study are to compare the body's physical responses and blood sugar changes to continuous moderate-intensity exercise vs. continuous moderate-intensity exercise + periodic high-intensity exercise in athletes with Type 1 diabetes.
Interstitial sugar levels are taken from the fluid surrounding the cells of tissues in 11 trained athletes with Type 1 diabetes. Samples are taken during two days when they were not active and during 2 days in which 45 minutes of afternoon continuous moderate-intensity exercise occurred either with or without periodic high-intensity exercise.
The total amount of work performed and the duration of exercise is identical between sessions.
During exercise, heart rate, respiratory exchange ratio to determine how the body is getting energy, oxygen utilization, ventilation (breathing) and blood lactatic acid (waste build-up from exercise) levels are higher during continuous moderate-intensity + intermittent high-intensity exercise vs. continuous moderate-intensity exercise.
Despite these noticeable heart-lung differences, there is no difference in the reduction of interstitial sugar or blood sugar levels between the exercise trials.
Nighttime sugar levels are higher in continuous moderate-intensity + periodic high-intensity exercise and in inactive vs. continuous moderate-intensity exercise.
Compared with continuous moderate-intensity exercise alone, continuous moderate-intensity + periodic high-intensity exercise is associated with less hypoglycemia after exercise and more hyperglycemia after exercise.
Although the decreases in sugar level during continuous moderate-intensity exercise and continuous moderate-intensity + periodic high-intensity exercise are similar, the latter form of exercise protects against nighttime hypoglycemia in athletes with Type 1 diabetes.
