How long will you be positive for covid after illness?

A test called reverse-transcription PCR (RT-PCR) is used to test for infection for the coronavirus (which causes COVID-19 - a viral, respiratory illness) by looking for traces of genes from the virus.
The chances of getting an incorrect positive (or virus-detected) result is low when using RT-PCR tests, but false negatives (when a person tests negative - not having the virus - but they are actually positive) are possible depending on swab type and time since symptoms started.
The aim of this study is to determine how the likelihood of getting a false-negative test in patients with coronavirus is impacted by the time since symptoms started and the type of swab, a small piece of soft material sometimes on the end of a small stick.
Publicly available data from patients who received several RT-PCR tests and identified as positive for coronavirus are analyzed.
The likelihood of a positive test decreased with the time passed since the start of symptoms. Samples from the middle part of the throat are less likely to give a positive result than swabs from the throat and back of the nose.
The chance of incorrectly identifying an uninfected person because of a false-negative is reduced if negative tests are repeated 24 hours later.
For a small chance of a false-positive test (<0.5%), the true number of infected individuals is larger than the number of positive tests.
For a higher chance of a false-positive test, the true number of infected individuals is smaller than the number of positive tests.
In conclusion, the samples from the back of the nose called nasopharyngeal are more sensitive than the samples taken in the middle of the throat.
The later an infected individual is tested after symptom start, the less likely they are to test positive.
This finding may influence decisions on identifying infected patients, contact tracing, or disease tracking, and discharging or releasing recovering patients who are possibly still infectious and can transmit the virus.
