Could compression therapy with bandage raise your blood pressure?

The aim of this study was to determine how  short-stretch compression therapy affected blood flow and clinical tolerance (how much a patient could take). The study was conducted in elderly patients suffering from leg ulcers (sores) caused by various reasons.
This observational study was conducted in 25 hospitalized patients with moderate peripheral aterial occlusive disease, or limited blood flow to lower limbs.
Short-stretch bandages were applied daily with pressures ranging from 20 to 30mm Hg.
Several health measures were taken before the bandages were applied and after 24 hours. These measures include: ankle-brachial pressure, great toe laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF), and transcutaneous oxygen pressure (TcPO2) on top of the foot. LDF measures blood flow. TcPO2 measures oxygen in the skin.
Great toe LDF was also measured at 10 minutes after bandage application.
Compression pressure (CP) was measured before bandages were placed on, at 10 minutes, and before bandage removal at 24 hours.
Clinical tolerance was evaluated taking into account the patient's pain and skin tolerance.
The average age of patients was 80 ± 15 years.
Median (average) duration of ulcers was 18 months.
Hypertension (high blood pressure) was highly common.
One third of patients had diabetes.
Toe pressure index and TcPO2 values did not significantly change under compression therapy. CP decreased significantly during 24 hours.
The loss of CP was significant 10 minutes after bandages were put on.
Nearly all ulcers were painful prior to placement of compression therapy and required level 1 (minor) pain medication.
One patient required level 2 (more intense) pain medication for pain relief.
No increase in pain and no skin damage due to low blood flow occurred under compression therapy.
The authors conclude that elderly patients with mixed leg ulcers using short-stretch compression did not have adversely (negatively) affected blood flow to the heart. The treatment was clinically well tolerated.
Bandages with appropriate levels of compression may aid ulcer healing by treating the diseased veins.
