Could compression therapy with bandage raise your blood pressure?

Objectives: This study was conducted to determine hemodynamic and clinical tolerance under short-stretch compression therapy in elderly patients suffering from mixed-etiology leg ulcers.
Design: Transversal observational study conducted in 25 hospitalized patients with a moderate peripheral arterial occlusive disease defined as an ankle-brachial pressure index>0.5, an ankle pressure of> 70mm Hg and a toe cuff pressure (TP)> 50mm Hg.
Material and methods: Short-stretch bandages were applied daily with pressures from 20 to 30mm Hg.
Ankle-brachial pressure, great toe laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF) and transcutaneous oxygen pressure (TcPO2) on dorsum of the foot were measured at baseline and after its removal at 24hours.
Great toe LDF was also measured at 10minutes after bandage application.
Compression pressure (CP) was measured with a sub-bandage device at baseline, at 10minutes and before bandage removal at 24hours.
Clinical tolerance was evaluated taking into account the patient's pain and skin tolerance.
Results: Mean age of patients was 80±15 years.
Median duration of ulcers was 18 months.
Hypertension was highly prevalent.
One third of patients had diabetes.
Toe pressure index and TcPO2 values did not significantly change under compression therapy (P=0.51 and P=0.09, respectively) whereas CP decreased significantly during 24hours.
The loss of CP was significant 10minutes after bandage application (P<0.001).
Nearly all ulcers were painful prior to placement of compression therapy and required level 1 analgesics.
One patient required level 2 analgesic for pain relief.
No increase in pain and no ischemic skin damage occurred under compression therapy.
Conclusions: In elderly patients with mixed leg ulcers and with an absolute TP>50mm Hg, short-stretch compression of up to 30mm Hg does not adversely affect arterial flow and appears clinically well tolerated.
Such bandages with appropriate levels of compression may aid ulcer healing by treating the venous part of the disease.
