Do i keep a pressure sore covered and moist and what kind of ointment to use?

Bedsores are areas of injury to the skin or underlying tissue, or both, found in a certain part of the body.
Doctors often use dressings to treat bedsores and promote healing, and there are many options to choose from.
Doctors have also used medications applied to the skin instead of dressings to promote healing.
A clear and current summary of the scientific data is needed to help make decisions about the use of dressings or medicines applied to the skin to treat bedsores.
This review would ideally help people with bedsores and doctors decide the best treatment options.
This review compares multiple studies to measure the likelihood of complete ulcer (bedsore) healing based on different dressings and medicines applied to the skin.
We included 51 studies (2947 people) in this review and compared treatments based on the likelihood of complete healing.
We compared 21 different treatments (13 dressings, 6 medicines applied to the skin and 2 mixed treatments) and looked at 39 studies in 2127 people, 783 of whom had completely healed wounds.
We thought the data were limited, with relatively few participants, with few wounds, both for the number of treatments and the number of mixed treatments, and mostly small or very small studies.
We thought that most of the data were low or very low quality due to unclear data combined with high likelihood of misleading results.
We are not sure our ranking of interventions (treatments) is correct, but we summarize our results to compare treatments to saline gauze often used to as a wound dressing.
We report only results from data we did not think was low quality, but these reported results should be considered keeping in mind the overall low certainty of data used.
We are not sure whether protease-modulating (protein-altering) dressings increased the likelihood of bedsore healing compared to saline gauze.
For every 1000 people, 102 more people healed with protease modulating dressings than people treated with only saline gauze.
We are not sure collagenase (enzyme) ointment, foam dressings, basic wound contact dressings, and polyvinylpyrrolidone (water-soluble biological molecule) plus zinc oxide increased the likelihood of bedsore healing compared to saline gauze.
We conclude that comparing data from 39 studies (rating 21 dressings and medicines applied to the skin for bedsores) is limited and the data are not reliable (due to unclear data and high likelihood of misleading results).
Therefore, we cannot tell which dressings or medicines applied to the skin are the most likely to heal bedsores nor whether the treatments we looked at work better than saline gauze.
More research is needed to find out whether certain dressings or medicines applied to the skin improve the likelihood of bedsore healing.
Our study does not help decide which treatments might best be part of a large trial, and studies may need to focus on prevention, leaving doctors to decide which treatment to use based on wound symptoms, professional experience, what the patients want and cost.
