I have lupus. What can i do to stop it?

Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a type of protein that promotes and develops immune cells at the start of an immune response and keeps them alive. A low-dose of interleukin-2 can restore changes of immune cells called T cells and Treg cells, resulting in the start of remission (recovery) in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus - when your immune system attacks healthy cells).
However, to date, no research has been carried out on the effectiveness of low-dose IL-2 in the treatment of lupus nephritis, a type of kidney disease caused by lupus.
The aim of this study is to investigate the kidney response to low-dose IL-2 in patients with lupus nephritis that is not responding to standard treatment.
The study includes 10 patients with lupus nephritis who failed to achieve a  complete response to standard treatment or who improved and then worsened while being treated with at least two standard treatments.
One treatment cycle consists of IL-2 given by an injection every other day for 2 weeks followed by a 2-week break.
All patients receive three cycles of IL-2 and are then followed up for another 12 weeks without any increase in the dose of the previous treatments or steroids.
Of the 10 patients enrolled in the study, 7 (70%) achieved 50% or more improvement in proteinuria (elevated levels of protein in the urine) at 12 weeks after starting IL-2 treatment.
Average proteinuria is significantly reduced by 50.3% at week 12.
There is also a 71% decrease in red blood cells in urine at 12 weeks.
An antibody (infection-fighting molecule) associated with lupus called anti-ds DNA decreased from the start of the study to week 12, while protein complements C3 and C4 used to monitor the immune systems are slightly increased.
A significant expansion of the immune Treg cells, from 9.3% at the start of the study to 16.6% at 12 weeks, is also found.
No serious negative events occurred while patients receive the treatment.
In conclusion, low-dose IL-2 therapy may have a promising role in the treatment of refractory lupus nephritis as an alternative and safe treatment approach.
Low-dose IL-2 may be used in combination with other medicines in clinical practice.
