What are the types of histone proteins?

While DNA of multi-celled and some one-celled organisms both encode a specific DNA-binding region, only multi-celled organisms encode the core proteins that DNA wraps around (core histones).
With DNA, these core histones assemble into an 8-piece in the nucleus that binds DNA in multi-celled organisms.
Importantly, certain core histones are kept as proteins capable of general-purpose or region-specific DNA-binding proteins.
In this context, identifying core histone-like "duplicates" in the replication factories for the virus Marseilleviridae (MV) is a new finding with usefuleness to understanding the origin of chromosomes in multi-celled organisms (eukaryotes).
Here, we analyze the core histone duplicate genes from all known MV genes and other MV genes related to the origin of the DNA replication site for multi-celled organisms.
With different evolutionary approaches, we show that specific MV DNA-binding areas encode necessary histones of possible pre-eukaryotic origin.
MV core histones form similar groups to each of the four eukaryotic groups of known and variant core histones.
MV core histone groups may have divered before eukaryotic duplicate genes gained new functions (neofunctionalization) associated with paired linear chromosomes and variable histone group assembly.
We also show that MV genes encode a pre-eukaryotic DNA replication enzyme that forms a sister group to eukaryotes.
This is a useful finding since these DNA replication enzymes affect histone settlement and DNA compaction and is the second most common nuclear protein after histones.
The combined region architecture and evolutionary analyses shown here suggest a primitive origin for MV histone genes is a tighter explanation than gene transfers + fusions + mutations to eliminate relatedenss to eukaryotic neofunctionalizations within histone groups without loss of relatedness to each of the four core histone sister groups.
We thus suggest that MV histone doublet genes and their DNA replication gene were possible obtained from an organism with a specific DNA replication site that diverged before the origin of eukaryotic core histone variation.
Core histones may have been used before in viral DNA compaction and protection from host proteins.
