What are the types of histone proteins?

Background: The oncogenic role of histone mutations is one of the most relevant discovery in cancer epigenetics.
Recurrent mutations targeting histone genes have been described in pediatric brain tumors, chondroblastoma, giant cell tumor of bone and other tumor types.
The demonstration that mutant histones can be oncogenic and drive the tumorigenesis in pediatric tumors, led to the coining of the term "oncohistones." The first identified histone mutations were localized at or near residues normally targeted by post-translational modifications (PTMs) in the histone N-terminal tails and suggested a possible interference with histone PTMs regulation and reading.
Main body: In this review, we describe the peculiar organization of the multiple genes that encode histone proteins, and the latter advances in both the identification and the biological role of histone mutations in cancer.
Recent works show that recurrent somatic mutations target both N-terminal tails and globular histone fold domain in diverse tumor types.
Oncohistones are often dominant-negative and occur at higher frequencies in tumors affecting children and adolescents.
Notably, in many cases the mutations target selectively only some of the genes coding the same histone protein and are frequently associated with specific tumor types or, as documented for histone variant H3.3 in pediatric glioma, with peculiar tumors arising from specific anatomic locations.
Conclusion: The overview of the most recent advances suggests that the oncogenic potential of histone mutations can be exerted, together with the alteration of histone PTMs, through the destabilization of nucleosome and DNA-nucleosome interactions, as well as through the disruption of higher-order chromatin structure.
However, further studies are necessary to fully elucidate the mechanism of action of oncohistones, as well as to evaluate their possible application to cancer classification, prognosis and to the identification of new therapies.
