Is there any nutrition which can increase body immunity against covid 19?

The pandemic caused by the new coronavirus (which causes COVID-19 - a viral, breathing-related illness) has caused shock waves in many countries, producing a global health crisis.
Lack of knowledge of how the virus works, plus the absence of effective treatments against Covid-19 and/or vaccines have put the immune system and its ability to fight disease in the spotlight.
Having a healthy balance of specific nutrients is key to keeping parts of the immune system working in order to avoid and fight infections.
There are 6 vitamins (D, A, C, Folate, B6, B12) and 4 minerals (zinc, iron, copper and selenium) that the European Food Safety Authority sees as important for the immune system to function well.
In this report is an update on the evidence of 1) how nutrition impacts the immune system, 2) what things might reduce how long nutrients stay in the body, and 3) the role of the healthy balance of these nutrients during the Covid-19 pandemic.
First, researchers review available scientific data on the impact of a healthy balance of these nutrients on the immune system, as well as their role in Covid-19 prevention and treatment.
Second, nutrition data from 10 European countries are compiled and analyzed, and the relationship between country nutrition and Covid-19 data is evaluated.
Additionally, the possible effect of genes on nutrient balance is considered for these 10 nutrients.
Using genetic information from available databases, researchers estimated that countries may be at a greater risk of low nutritional balance.
Results from the review show the importance of keeping a correct nutritional balance of these 10 nutrients for the health of the immune system and highlights the importance of Vitamin D and iron in the context of Covid-19.
The study of these nutrients and their environment shows that the amount consumed of certain vitamins and minerals-especially Vitamins D, C, B12, and iron-are inversely or oppositely associated with higher Covid-19 numbers and/or death (i.e., the higher the nutrition, the lower the risk of Covid-19 illness and vice versa). This finding is very important for groups with genes shown to lower micronutrient status.
In conclusion, using nutritional and genetic data and how they influence the immune system and how long nutrients stay in the body can be key tools to help strengthen the immune system of individuals and prepare people to fight viruses such as Covid-19.
