Is there any nutrition which can increase body immunity against covid 19?

Coronavirus infection (a viral, respiratory disease) is associated with different types of symptoms, as well as damage to the immune system and changes in gut microbiota, which are important microorganisms in the digestive system that process food and help the body use nutrients.
The nutrition and chemical processes of one's diet can alter the microbiota in the stomach, which may play a role in the body's ability to fight possible infections.
In the Covid-19 pandemic, besides developing medicines and vaccines, a healthy diet with antioxidants (vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients that protect and repair cells) may be a useful option.
Many studies show that vitamins and probiotic (good bacteria) therapies have positive effects on the treatment and prevention of oxidative stress (a condition that happens when antioxidant levels are low leading to cell and tissue damage) and inflammation (redness and swelling from fighting an infection) in Covid-19.
Research on the relationship between the gut microbiota in the digestive system and its environment is linked to the protein receptor of the cell surface that allows the virus to enter, called ACE2, suggesting that Covid-19 may be linked to the gut microbiota.
The protein and its ACE2 receptor that allows viruses to attach to cells play central roles in controlling the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), which is the system that regulates blood pressure and fluids in the body.
In addition, ACE2 has functions that act without influence by the RAS.
ACE2 is the receptor for the SARS coronavirus that causes COVID-19, and ACE2 is essential for the production of amino acids (molecules that form proteins) in the gut.
In this instance, ACE2 controls natural immunity or infection prevention and influences what substances make up the gut microbiota.
Malnutrition is one of the leading underlying causes of illness and death across the world and, including other health problems, may be a major cause of worse outcomes and higher deaths among Covid-19 patients.
This paper reviews the existing research on food and diets, with a focus on vitamins, antioxidants, and probiotics, and their impact on the gut bacteria during the coronavirus pandemic.
