How safe is the covid vaccine?

As of January 3, 2021, a total of 20,346,372 cases of Covid-19 (a viral, breathing-related disease) and 349,246 deaths associated with Covid-19 have been reported in the United States.
Long-lasting effects of Covid-19 over the course of a lifetime are currently unknown; however, continuing symptoms and serious complications are being reported by some Covid-19 survivors, including people who first have a mild acute (sudden) case.
On December 11, 2020, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA), which allows unapproved medicines to be used, for Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine to prevent Covid-19, administered as 2 doses separated by 21 days.
A group of medical and public health experts called the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices issued a temporary recommendation in December 2020 for using the Pfizer vaccine; the first available doses were to be used for health care staff and people who lived in long-term care facilities.
As of December 23, 2020, a reported 1,893,360 first shots of the Pfizer vaccine had been administered in the United States, and reports of 4,393 (0.2%) unexpected side effects (adverse events) after receiving the Pfizer vaccine had been submitted to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), a national vaccine safety tracking system that accepts reports of adverse events after vaccination.
Among these reports of adverse events, 175 case reports were identified for further review as possible cases of severe allergic reaction, including anaphylaxis - a life-threatening allergic reaction.
Anaphylaxis is a life-threatening allergic reaction that occurs rarely after vaccination and usually starts within minutes to hours of receiving the vaccine.
There were 21 cases with anaphylaxis, including 17 in people with a documented history of allergies or allergic reactions, 7 of whom had a history of anaphylaxis.
The average time between receiving the vaccine to the start of symptoms was 13 minutes, but the range of time for symptoms to start was between 2 minutes - 150 minutes.
Among 20 people with follow-up information available, all had recovered or been sent home.
Of the remaining case reports that were found not to have anaphylaxis, 86 cases were judged not to be anaphylaxis allergic reactions, and 61 were considered nonallergic adverse events.
Seven case reports were still under investigation.
This report summarizes the case reports of allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis and nonanaphylaxis allergic reactions, after receiving the first shot of the Pfizer vaccine during December 14-23, 2020, in the United States.
CDC has issued updated temporary clinical guidance for use of Covid-19 vaccines currently allowed in the United States and temporary guidance for preparing for people who experience anaphylaxis.
In addition to checking for reasons a person should not get the vaccine and precautions before giving the Covid-19 vaccines, the locations providing the vaccine should have necessary supplies if anaphylaxis occurs. Additionally, these locations should set aside time to observe people who receive the vaccine and should immediately treat people experiencing anaphylaxis signs and symptoms.
