How safe is the covid vaccine?

In December 2020, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued Emergency Use Authorizations (when unapproved medicines may be used) for Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna Covid-19 vaccines (vaccines for the viral, respiratory disease). In February 2021, the FDA issued an emergency authorization for the Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) Covid-19 vaccine.
After each emergency authorization was issued, short-term recommendations for vaccine use were issued. Currently, Pfizer is authorized and recommended for persons aged 12 years or older and Moderna and Janssen for persons aged 18 years and older.
The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines require two shots and use a strand of genetic code that the body uses to build a protein that’s found in the coronavirus. The Janssen vaccine requires one shot and delivers instructions by DNA that the virus cannot replicate.
As of July 22, 2021, 187 million people in the United States received at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, and it has been demonstrated that serious side effects are rare.
Three medical conditions have been reported after getting the Covid-19 vaccine, but the association between these conditions and the vaccine is mainly based on timing, in which the condition and vaccine occur around the same time.
Two of these conditions are reported after getting the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. They are 1) thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome [TTS], a rare condition with blood clots in the veins and arteries and low blood platelet counts (platelets help the body form blood clots to stop bleeding from injury), and 2) Guillain-Barré syndrome [GBS], a rare disorder characterized by muscle weakness and paralysis.
One condition (myocarditis, cardiac inflammation or heart-related swelling from an infection) has been reported after the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, usually after the second dose. These two vaccines will be referred to as mRNA Covid-19 vaccination.
Data associated with these reports of serious side effects, in addition to the benefits and risks associated with vaccination, have been reviewed by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
During the most recent meeting in July 2021, ACIP determined that, overall, the benefits of Covid-19 vaccination in preventing Covid-19 illness and death outweigh the risks for these rare serious side effects in adults aged 18 years or older. This balance of benefits and risks was different by age and sex.
ACIP continues to recommend Covid-19 vaccination in all people aged 12 years and older.
CDC and FDA continue to closely monitor reports of serious side effects and will present any additional data to ACIP for review.
Information on risks and how they vary by age, sex, and type of vaccine should be shared with providers, people who receive the vaccine, and the public.
