How safe is the covid vaccine?

The coronavirus disease has caused a global pandemic (Covid-19 - a viral breathing-related disease), with huge health and economic losses.
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has granted emergency use authorization, where unapproved medicines may be used, for treatment with the Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna Covid-19 vaccines.
Many people have a history of bad allergic reactions to specific foods, medicine, or vaccines, so people all over the world have great concerns about these two vaccines.
This article compares the use, reasons to take, reasons to not get, and side effects of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines.
The documents and information are collected from multiple databases and sources, including the FDA and World Health Organization.
Researchers used key search terms to collect information: Coronavirus, SARS-COV-2 (the coronavirus's name), Covid-19 pandemic, vaccines, Pfizer vaccine, Moderna vaccine, impact of drugs, benefits, allergic responses, reasons to take vaccines, reasons to not take the vaccine, and unexpected serious side effects.
Twelve documents including research articles, clinical studies, and websites are used to record the required information.
Based on available information, both vaccines are beneficial in providing immunity (resistance) against the coronavirus infection.
The Pfizer vaccine is recommended to people 16 years of age and older.
It triggers an immune response for at least 119 days after the first vaccination and is 95% effective in preventing the coronavirus infection.
However, the Moderna vaccine is recommended to people 18 years of age and older.
It triggers an immune response for at least 119 days after the first vaccination and is 94.5% effective in preventing the coronavirus infection.
However, some allergic reactions have been reported for both vaccines.
The Covid-19 vaccines can cause mild side effects after the first and second shot, including pain, redness or swelling at the site of the vaccine shot, fever, fatigue, headache, muscle pain, nausea, vomiting, itching, chills, and joint pain. Rarely, it can cause anaphylactic shock which is a severe allergic reaction that begins very quickly and can be life-threatening.
Side effects are reported to be lower in the Pfizer vaccine compared to Moderna; however, the Moderna vaccine is easier to transport and store.
In conclusion, the FDA has granted emergency use authorization for the Pfizer and Moderna Covid-19 vaccines.
These vaccines can protect people from coronavirus infection by forming antibodies (protective proteins made by the immune system to fight infections) and provide immunity against a coronavirus infection.
Both vaccines can cause different side effects, but these reactions are found to be less frequent in the Pfizer vaccine compared to the Moderna vaccine. However, the Moderna vaccine is easier to transport and store compared to the Pfizer vaccine.
