Do memory problems improve over time when taking pregabalin?

Pregabalin is a nerve pain medication. The drug has been shown to help reduce opioid use (opioid-sparing) and have pain relieving (analgesic) effects in the early period following a surgery. However, effects before, during, and after surgery on cognition (thinking ability) have not been studied.
A study in 80 patients that had one or both of their kidneys removed was previously conducted to evaluate the opioid-sparing, analgesic, and antihyperalgesic (reduction of pain sensitivity) effects of pregabalin.
This paper describes a secondary investigation that tested if pregabalin would impair cognitive function when compared to a control (no treatment) group.
Eighty patients scheduled for donor nephrectomy (removal of one or both kidneys) participated in this study.
Pregabalin (150 mg twice daily) or placebo (a harmless pill) was administered (given) on the day of surgery and the first post-operation day. This was given in addition to a pain regimen consisting of opioids, steroids, local anesthetics, and acetaminophen (pain medication).
Cognitive tests measuring inhibition (restraint), sustained attention, psychomotor (movement) speed, visual memory, and strategy were performed before, 24 h, and 3 to 5 days after surgery.
The spatial working memory test is used to determine if a participant can recall the configuration of a series of images. During the test, the number of errors increased with pregabalin treatment compared to placebo 24 h after surgery.
Furthermore, pregabalin significantly increased the number of errors in the stop-signal task stop-go test compared with placebo.
There were no significant differences between treatment groups in the paired associated learning, reaction time, rapid visual processing, or spatial working memory strategy tests.
Perioperative (around surgery time) pregabalin significantly negatively affected several aspects of cognitive function when compared to placebo. However, psychomotor speed or movement was not changed.
