Do memory problems improve over time when taking pregabalin?

Central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) adverse effects (side effects) are commonly reported with pregabalin (PGB), a drug commonly given for nerve pain.
However, movement disorders (MDs) associated with pregabalin were rarely described.
However, their occurrence could significantly affect the quality of life of PGB users.
This literature review aims to evaluate the clinical incidence, distribution, and control; underlying causative mechanisms; and management of PGB-associated MDs.
Relevant scientific papers in six databases were identified and assessed (evaluated) by two reviewers without language restriction.
A total of 46 reports containing 305 cases from 17 countries were assessed.
The MDs reported were as follows: 184 individuals with ataxia (loss of full control of body movement), 61 with tremors (shaking), 39 with myoclonus (jerky movement), 8 with Parkinson's disease, 1 with restless legs syndrome, 1 with dystonia (involuntary muscle contraction), 1 with dyskinesia (uncontrolled muscle movement), and 1 with akathisia (feeling of restlessness).
The average age was 62 years. The age range was 23 to 94 years old.
The male sex was slightly predominant at 54.34% of all cases.
The average PGB dose when the MD occurred was 238 mg. Nerve pain was the most common indication of PGB.
The time between PGB start and onset of a MD was less than one month for a majority of cases.
The time from PGB withdrawal to recovery was less than 1 week for a majority of cases.
All the individuals where the follow-up was reported had a full recovery.
The most common management was PGB withdrawal.
In the literature, the majority of the cases did not report information about timeline events, neurological (brain-related) examination details, or electrodiagnostic studies (using electrical activity to gauge health).
The best management for all MDs is probably PGB withdrawal.
If the patient is on dialysis (blood filtering and purification) program, perhaps an increased number of sessions will decrease recovery time.
Furthermore, the addition of a benzodiazepine (anti-anxiety drug) could speed up recovery.
