What is a gene affected by sickle cell anemia?

Sickle Cell Anemia (SCA) is caused by a single gene mutation. SCA varies in different patients mainly due to the fetal hemoglobin (HbF) level in the blood.
No large research studies have ever compared factors seen in patients with the major different beta-globin genetic types; for example, Senegal (SEN), Benin (BEN), and Bantu/Central African Republic (CAR).
This research studies the importance of alpha genes, different beta gene types, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD-an enzyme that protects red blood cells from damage) activity in patients before and after treatment with the medicine,  hydroxyurea.
This study included boys and girls who inherited the sickle hemoglobin (HbS) from both parents (SS -Creteil pediatric group). Facts about the alpha-gene and beta-globin genetic types were known.
Children who inherited the major different beta-globin genetic types from both parents made up 74% all patients CAR/CAR, BEN/BEN, and SEN/SEN.
Hydroxyurea (HU) was given to 168 children with Sickle Cell Anemia (SCA).
Factors in the blood were recorded when HbF was highest. Changes were analyzed after hydroxyurea (HU) was given.
Before HU, the CAR beta-globin genetic type and the alpha-gene were separately linked to lower hemoglobin and higher lactate dehydrogenase (an enzyme from tissue damage).
Higher HbF was linked to lower CAR genetic type numbers but higher BEN and SEN genetic type numbers.
A BCL11A gene mutation is linked to the favorable higher HbF levels. This gene mutation was also linked to higher BEN, but lower CAR genetic type numbers.
With HU treatment, positive changes and higher HbF numbers were linked to the BEN genetic type.
BEN/BEN patients had higher HbF and hemoglobin (Hb) levelsthan CAR/CAR and SEN/SEN patients.
This research shows that children inheriting BEN mutations from both parents (BEN/BEN) have the best response on hydroxyurea. This could be related to the more likely presence of favorable genetic mutations for HbF production in these patients.
