How much physical therapy for knee replacement is needed?

This study looked at using tele-rehab (where providers interact with patients remotely using the internet) after complete or partial knee replacement surgery. 
Specifically, the study looked at: (1) how well patients kept up with the program, (2) time spent performing physical therapy exercises, (3) how easy it was to use the virtual rehab software, and (4) outcomes for a certain group of patients that had knee replacement surgery.
A total of 157 patients in a row had complete (18) or partial (139) knee replacement.
These patients used a tele-rehab system with an instructional avatar, three-dimensional motion measurement and analysis software, and real-time tele-visit capability designed for joint surgery patients.
We measured how well patients kept up with the program by how many times the patients followed the recommended repetitions of exercises.
We collected the total each patient time spent performing exercises.
We evaluated how easy it was for patients to use the virtual rehab software using a questionnaire.
We also recorded the number of in-person and virtual visits for each patient.
We collected patient-reported outcomes through patient/doctor portals. Measurements included were the Knee Society Score (KSS) for pain and functions, the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) score, and Boston University Activity Measure for Post-Acute Care (AM-PAC) score.
Patients spent an average of about 30 days participating in the therapy.
Complete knee replacement patients, on average, had 3.5 outpatient follow-up visits each for in-office therapy with a physical therapist. Partial knee replacement patients had, on average, 3.2 of these visits.
For complete knee replacement patients, this was on average 0.8 more visits than for real-time virtual patient-clinician. For partial hip replacement patients, it was 1 more visit.
Patients spent, on average, 26.5 minutes per day doing an average of 13.5 exercises.
By the end of rehab, patients had spent an average of 10.8 hours doing exercises, and of all the exercises performed, around 21 were uniquely designed.

After therapy, KSS pain and function scores improved notably. The scores for pain improved by 368% for complete knee replacement and 350% for partial. The scores for function improved by 33% for complete knee replacement 27% for partial.
Additionally, WOMAC scores improved by 57% for partial knee replacement and 66% for compete knee replacement. The improvement in AM-PAC scores was at 22% for partial and 24% for complete.
This tele-rehab platform encouraged interaction between doctors and patients beyond the hospital setting. It offers the advantage of cost savings, convenience, at-home monitoring, and coordination of care. All of these are geared to improve how well patients keep up and overall patient satisfaction.
Additionally, the data from the platform can be used to make custom physical therapy regimens to assure proper rehabilitation. This is lacking in other tele-rehab applications that use non-interactive videos that can be watched on mobile devices and tablets.
