How to eliminate nocturnal atrial fibrillation?

There are associations between sleep-disordered breathing (SDB), a potentially serious sleep disorder in which breathing repeatedly stops and starts, and atrial fibrillation (AF), an irregular and often very rapid heart rhythm that can lead to blood clots in the heart.
This study investigates the impact of AF interventions and treatments on 6-month home sleep testing data.
Sixty-seven patients with persistent (lasting longer than 7 days) atrial fibrillation were randomly put in 3 different treatment groups: 1) cardioversion (a procedure used to return an irregular or very fast heartbeat to a normal rhythm), 2) permanent pacemaker (a small device that is inserted under the skin of the chest to help the heart beat normally) with atrioventricular node ablation (heat energy to destroy a small amount of tissue between the upper and lower chambers of your heart) with cardioversion, or 3) AF ablation (using small burns or freezes to cause some scarring on the inside of the heart to help break up the electrical signals that cause irregular heartbeats).
Home sleep tests were recorded at the start of the study and at 6 months.
Other devices were used to monitor heart rhythm throughout the study period.
The occurrence of moderate-to-severe SBD, that measured over 15 for apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI), the number of breathing pauses or disruptions per hour while asleep, was found in more than half (60%) of patients.
At six months there was no change in AHI, sleepiness during the day, sleep time, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and other tests that measure sleep and breathing patterns.
At 6 months, 25 patients (15 from the AF ablation group) had a steady sinus rhythm, the pattern of your heartbeat based on the sinus node of your heart which sends out electrical pulses.
AHI fell from 29.8 ± 26.6/h to 22.2 ± 20.4/h.
In conclusion, sleep-disordered breathing is very common in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation.
Restoration of sinus rhythm, and the associated long-term recovery of normal heart function, is associated with a large reduction in AHI.
This finding suggests that reversing fluid from the lower limbs to the neck area is a key process in the development of sleep-disordered breathing.
