How to eliminate nocturnal atrial fibrillation?

Atrial fibrillation is a fluttery and irregular heartbeat that can lead to blood clots or stroke. For patients that had atrial fibrillation for only a few weeks, using a test that produces pictures of the heart called transesophageal echocardiography is an opportunity to shorten the duration of atrial fibrillation before cardioversion, a procedure used to return an irregular or very fast heartbeat to a normal rhythm.
Researchers aimed to find out if the shorter time period of atrial fibrillation from using transesophageal echocardiography impacts how often atrial fibrillation returns and the frequency of sinus rhythm in the first year after cardioversion. Sinus rhythm is the pattern of your heartbeat based on the sinus node of your heart which sends out electrical pulses.
Transesophageal echocardiography is used in 539 patients who had atrial fibrillation for two or more days (more than half had atrial fibrillation for less than 3 weeks) or for an unknown duration before non-emergency cardioversion of atrial fibrillation.
Blood thinners at the time of the transesophageal echocardiography were used in almost all patients, and 73.4% were discharged on warfarin, a blood thinner to prevent blood clots.
Heart-related blood clots were found in 70 (13.1%) patients.
Among patients who successfully had the cardioversion procedure, 1 patient had clinical thromboembolism, a blood clot in the vein.
In the patients who had atrial fibrillation for less than 3 weeks at the time of cardioversion, the return of atrial fibrillation in the first year was lower, and the frequency of sinus rhythm at 1 year increased.
No other clincal or heart evaluations are associated with returning atrial fibrillation or sinus rhythm at 1 year.
Having the cardioversion procedure earlier by using the transesophageal echocardiography is shown to be a safe method and is associated with reducing the return of atrial fibrillation in patients who have had the heart condition for less than 3 weeks.
