How to eliminate nocturnal atrial fibrillation?

In the treatment of arrhythmia (an irregular heartbeat), beta-blockers (medications that reduce blood pressure) are mainly used to regulate the heart rate.
However, beta-blockers are also known as drugs with an antiarrhythmic effect (drugs that slow down the electrical impulses of the heart) due to the suppression of sympathetic activity (the part of the nervous system that increases heart rate, blood pressure, and other heart functions).
Researchers evaluated how electrical impulses of the heart are slowed down when using a beta-blocker called bisoprolol in patients with diurnal (during the day) paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (an irregular heart rate that returns to normal within 7 days on its own or with treatment).
A total of 136 patients with symptomatic daytime paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (P-AF) were included in the study.
Patients were divided into a daytime P-AF or a daytime and nighttime P-AF group, as well as into a group that only uses bisoproplol and a group that uses a combination of heart treatment drugs.
The effects of bisoprolol are evaluated in 3 categories: symptom improvement, quality of life improvement, and elimination of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (P-AF) events, which are measured using a portable device called Holter electrocardiograms (ECGs) to record heart rhythms.
For patients with effective treatment, a long-term effect up to 24 months was evaluated.
Five patients stopped using bisoprolol due to side effects.
Following use of bisoprolol, 80% experienced symptom improvement, 76% experienced quality of life improvement, and elimination of P-AF episodes in ECGs was observed in 62%.
The elimination rate of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation episodes in ECGs was higher in the daytime group than in the daytime and nighttime group.
There was no significant difference between the group that only used bisoprolol and the combined use group.
A long-term effect of reducing P-AF using bisoprolol was found in 84% of patients.
This study shows that bisoprolol can slow down the electrical impulses of the heart in daytime paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, improve symptoms and quality of life, and eliminate paroxysmal atrial fibrillation episodes in ECGs.
