In adult patients with total hip replacements how effective is pain medication in recovery?

Opioid addiction is commonplace in the United States.
We created a standard for prescribing opioids to treat pain after hip and knee replacement. We also studied opioid usage alongside a system of measuring pain as reported by patients.
We assumed that people would use opioids less than prescribed. We also assumed that reducing prescriptions of opioids would reduce the amount taken without increasing the amount of pain reported.
This study followed patients over time, without intervening. It was done on all patients that had hip and knee replacement from April 7, 2018, to August 10, 2019.
We determined the amount of opioids used and how pain interfered with patients’ lives 2 weeks after discharge using telephone and email surveys.
Standards for prescribing opioids were used during the study.
Outcomes were compared in patients before and after following these standards.
A total of 715 patients were able to be in the study. Of those, 201 patients completed surveys.
Before the standards were followed, the average opioid prescription was about 81 tablets for hip replacement and about 83 tablets for knee replacement.
The average number of tablets used for both hip replacement and knee replacement was 35.
After the standards were followed, the average number of tables taken dropped to about 19 for hip replacement and about 32 for knee replacement.
After following a second standard for hip replacement, the average number of tablets taken was about 22.
There was not a significant changed in pain reported by patients that had hip replacement.
For knee replacement, there was an increase in patient-reported interference with recreational activities and tasks away from home, but otherwise there was no significant impact.
We conclude that following our standards for prescribing opioids reduced the amount of opioids both prescribed and taken, without significantly impacting the reported pain interference. This supports the need to decrease opioid prescription after hip and knee replacement surgery.
