In adult patients with total hip replacements how effective is pain medication in recovery?

Background: Pain management after total knee arthroplasty and total hip arthroplasty is pivotal, as it determines the outcome of the recovery process after surgery.
Ineffective pain control results in many postoperative complications and hinders successful recovery.
In recent years, the transition from opioids to a multimodal pain management approach after total knee and total hip arthroplasty has increasingly become an alternative.
This is due to the multitude of adverse effects associated with opioids.
As a result, the use of non-opioid interventions such as acetaminophen, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, gabapentinoids, and ketamine, and techniques such as peripheral nerve block and local infiltration analgesia have become more favorable.
Objectives: This paper aims to summarize literature around the effectiveness of non-opioid interventions as part of a multimodal pain management after total knee and total hip arthroplasty.
Methods: A literature review was conducted to provide evidence-based information with respect to pain management during the postoperative period in order to enhance the pain recovery process.
The literature chosen was extracted through the electronic databases PubMed, CINAHL, and Embase.
Twenty-seven eligible articles were identified that met the inclusion and exclusion criteria.
Results: Literary evidence shows that non-opioid interventions such as acetaminophen, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, gabapentinoids, ketamine, peripheral nerve blocks, and local infiltration analgesia benefit patients after total knee and total hip arthroplasty for pain management.
However, further quality research trials are necessary for more conclusive evidence-based information.
Conclusion: Selective literature supports the use of non-opioid interventions as part of a multimodal analgesics regimen for effective pain management after total knee and total hip arthroplasty.
