In adult patients with total hip replacements how effective is pain medication in recovery?

Total Hip Arthroplasty (THA, or hip replacement) is reported to be one of the most painful surgical procedures.
How the patient is cared for and rehabilitated around the time of surgery are very important for the success of the procedure.
This was a study of a group of patients that all had fast-track THA. The aim of the study was to evaluate function, ability to walk, and pain scores during the inpatient stay (6 days following surgery) and 4 weeks after the procedure.
To perform the study, we included a total of 102 consecutive patients that had previously had minimally invasive cementless THA under spinal anesthesia in a fast-track setup.
We measured how far patients could walk under their full weight with crutches, and how much a nurse had to help. We also measured pain using a Numerical Rating Scale (NRS).
We looked at function as measured by the range of motion (ROM) and the ability to sit on a chair, to walk and to maintain personal hygiene.
On top of that, we measured circumferences of patients’ thighs to look at how much swelling there was after surgery.
We used the widely used Harris Hip Score (HHS) to compare results before surgery and 4 weeks after surgery.
Looking at pain scores following surgery showed a constant decrease in the first week (days 1-6 after surgery).
The pain scores before surgery were significantly higher than day 6 after surgery, when attempting to walk, at rest, and at night.
All patients were able to walk on the day of surgery.
In addition, there was a significant improvement in independent activities within the first 6 days following surgery. These activities were sitting on a chair, walking and personal hygiene.
There was no significant difference between the thigh circumferences above the knee joint, measured before surgery and on day 6 after surgery.
Compared to before surgery, there was a significant improvement of the HHS 4 weeks after surgery.
In 100% of the cases, the operation was reported to be successful and all of the treated patients would choose a fast-track setup again.
In conclusion, application of a fast-track program is effective for function and ability of patients to walk.
Further, low pain values and fast improvement of walking distance confirms that the fast-track plan immediately after surgery is a success.
Finally, future studies that follow patients over time have to confirm the results by comparing a conventional and a fast-track plan.
