How can i reduce my potassium levels?

Hyperkalemia is a condition where the potassium level in the blood is higher than normal. Potassium is a very important mineral (electrolyte) in the body. Hyperkalemia can sometimes lead to death.
Although there are many guidelines, all doctors do not agree on the best ways to take care of patients with different types of hyperkalemia. Types of hyperkalemia include acute (coming on rapidly), and chronic (long-lasting).
This study discusses the serious issues and needs in the care of patients with hyperkalemia.
Real-world studies are needed to understand how many patients have hyperkalemia that are not under research.
Doctors need to improve the overall care of patients with hyperkalemia. This care includes knowing the type of hyperkalemia,  how often to check the blood potassium levels, when to use the potassium-binder drugs that are taken by mouth, and when doctors can start the RAAS blocker drugs again. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is a hormone system that manages blood pressure and fluid balance in the body. Drugs that block the RAAS (RAAS blockers) have good effects on the cardiovascular system (heart and blood vessels). But the RAAS blockers can cause hyperkalemia.
How often blood potassium levels are checked depends on the patient. Doctors should consider checking the blood levels more often in patients with chronic kidney disease, diabetes, heart failure, or a history of hyperkalemia and in patients taking RAAS blockers.
Recent patient studies suggest that the newer potassium-binders (patiromer sorbitex calcium and sodium zirconium cyclosilicate) may help using the RAAS blockers and overall good treatment.
Confidence in caring for patients with hyperkalemia may increase as primary care and internal medicine doctors learn more about the safety of the newer potassium-binders.
More studies are required in order to know if strict low-potassium diets are needed in patients taking potassium-binders.
Each patient's blood potassium levels should be checked as needed in patients at increased risk for hyperkalemia. Doing this, and using the newer potassium-binding drugs, may allow the best use of RAAS blockers and better overall care of patients with hyperkalemia.
