How can i reduce my potassium levels?

New treatments for long-lasting (chronic) hyperkalemia to take care of patients not in the hospital (outpatients) are being researched.
Current treatments for hyperkalemia are few and often have serious side effects.
Two new drugs are being researched for the treatment of hyperkalemia in new patient studies (clinical trials). Their names are sodium zirconium cyclosilicate and patiromer. 
Both of these drugs are given by mouth. They act by increasing the removal of potassium from the body, mostly through the gastrointestinal tract. The gastrointestinal tract includes the stomach and the bowels.
These drugs have already been studied in people for their safety and effectiveness in past clinical trials.
These clinical trials included patients with chronic hyperkalemia (ranging from mild to severe), chronic kidney disease, or heart failure. These research trials also included patients taking other drugs at the same time. These other drugs included a class of drugs that block the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system called RAAS blockers. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is a hormone system that manages blood pressure and fluid balance in the body.
These clinical trials found that sodium zirconium cyclosilicate and patiromer brought the blood potassium levels down to normal quickly and kept the blood levels of potassium normal for several weeks.
Both drugs caused a fast decrease in blood potassium levels. Two of these patient trials studied the effectiveness for 12 weeks or longer.
The overall number of side effects in these patient studies was low. The most common side effects seen were related to the  gastrointestinal tract.
Doctors don’t have a lot of ways to treat hyperkalemia, especially chronic hyperkalemia if the patient is not in the hospital.
Both sodium zirconium cyclosilicate and patiomer are new drugs that may provide long term treatment of hyperkalemia . These drugs may be very helpful in patients who also have heart failure or chronic kidney disease. They may also be helpful in patients taking one or more types of RAAS blockers.
