What is a biomarker?

Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a special class of RNAs that do not transcribe into (result into) proteins. CircRNAs have attracted increasing attention in recent years for their potential application as disease biomarkers due to their high abundance and stability. Biomarkers are measurable, biological substances that can indicate disease in a patient.
The authors aimed to screen circRNAs that can be used to predict post-operation recurrence and survival in patients with gastric cancer (GC), cancer of the stomach.
Tests were used to identify differentially (uniquely) expressed circRNAs in GC patients with different prognoses or forecasts of the disease.
The expression level of circRNAs in the training and validation sets were detected by laboratory testing. Training and validation sets are used in scientific modeling to train the artificial intelligence machine and then validate its output, respectively.
Several statistical tests were used to predict the amount of circRNAs on recurrence-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) in GC patients. Recurrence-free survival (RFS) refers to the time between the day of diagnosis of a disease and the day the patient relapses into illness. Overall survival (OS) refers to the time from the day of disease diagnosis that the patients are still alive.
Several bioinformatics tests evaluating disease recurrence and gene expression were performed for the circRNAs with prognostic significance (estimating the future disease course).
A total of 259 differentially expressed circRNAs were identified in GC patients with different RFS.
Two circRNAs were highly expressed in GC patients with good prognoses. These results established a predictive model for postoperative recurrence (disease relapse) and prognosis evaluation (likely course of disease), named circPanel.
Patients with circPanellow might have shorter recurrence-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS).
Additional tests to predict a circRNA-miRNA-mRNA network were completed on the two identified highly expressed circRNA.
CircPanel has the potential to be a prognostic biomarker in GC patients. CircPanel has greater accuracy than a single circRNA and other traditional tumor markers.
