How is phenylketonuria inherited?

Phenylketonuria (PKU), caused by genetic alterations in the phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) gene, is the most common disorder inherited from both parents in which the degree the body can properly turn food (and the protein phenylalanine) into energy can be predicted from genetic makeup. Severe PKU leads to an inability to properly convert food.
We estimated that 0.45 million individuals have PKU worldwide at a given point in time, occurring in 1 in 23,930 live births (range: 1 in 4,500 [Italy]-1 in 125,000 [Japan]).
Comparing genetic makeups and observable PKU symptoms from 16,092 affected people showed differences in disease seriousness in 51 countries from 17 world regions, with the worldwide observable PKU symptoms being 62% classic PKU, 22% mild PKU, and 16% mild elevated phenylalanine blood levels.
Observable PKU symptoms and genetic makeups differ across Europe, from classic PKU in the east to mild PKU in the southwest and mild elevated phenylalanine blood levels in the south.
A specific genetic alteration can be followed from Northern to Western Europe, from Sweden through Norway, to Denmark, to the Netherlands.
The part of the population with classic PKU at any point in time increases from Europe (56%) through the Middle East (71%) to Australia (80%).
Of 758 genetic alterations, three were the most common (22.2%, 6.4%, and 5.5%, respectively) and caused two widespread genetic types at any point in time (11.4% and 2.6%, respectively).
Most genetic makeups (73%) were compound heterozygous (both forms of the gene have different mutations), 27% were homozygous (both forms of the gene have the same mutation), and 55% of 3,659 different genetic makeups happened in only one person.
Genetic alterations associated with PAH were scored and connected with pre-treatment blood phenylalanine levels (6,115 patients) and results from a test to predict long-term treatment responsiveness (4,381 patients). This allowed prediction of both observable PKU symptoms based on genetic makeup and treatment responsiveness.
This study shows that large databases of genetic makeups allow correct prediction of observable PKU symptoms, which allows doctors to choose the right therapies to improve patient results.
