Can you take lorazepam and buspirone at the same time?

We enrolled 107 patients with generalized anxiety disorder who had been long-term benzodiazepine users (average length of use=8.5 years) in a program to discontinue benzodiazepines to measure how well other anxiety-reducing drugs like imipramine (180 mg/day) and buspirone (38 mg/day) helped patients wean or discontinue benzodiazepines compared to sugar pills.
After a period to stabilize benzodiazepine levels taking either diazepam, lorazepam, or alprazolam, patients took imipramine, buspirone, or sugar pills for 4 weeks while the amount of benzodiazepines taken were kept the same (treatment phase).
Patients then slowly decreased the amount of benzodiazepines taken for 4-6 weeks, took imipramine, buspirone, and sugar pills for the next 3 weeks, and then took sugar pills for 2 weeks.
Blood benzodiazepine levels were measured weekly using a common lab test.
We measured how many patients no longer had benzodiazepine in their blood 3 and 12 months after the last sugar pill.
Study participants had used benzodiazepines for a long time and had tried an average of three times to decrease the amount of benzodiazepines taken.
Patients who took imipramine were significantly more successful in decreasing the amount of benzodiazepines taken (82.6%), nonsignificantly more successful regarding patients who took buspirone (67.9%), than for patients who took sugar pills (37.5%).
Imipramine helped even after factoring in other factors to weaning success: amount of benzodiazepines taken, level of anxious feelings prior to weaning, and how long benzodiazepines have been taken.
We concluded that discontinuing benzodiazepines can be done more easily by giving patients imipramine before and during the process of slowly decreasing the amount of benzodiazepines taken over time.
Amount of benzodiazepines taken daily, level of anxiety and depression prior to weaning, and how long benzodiazepines have been taken also predicted success of slowly decreasing the amount of benzodiazepines taken.
