What could possibly cause a cyst in the lower pole of the kidney?

All relevant German child-care medical groups created the agreed-upon guideline.
Ultrasound or sound-wave imaging is the standard imaging for pre- and post-birth kidney cysts (fluid-filled swellings) and should exclude non-kidney growths in the abdomen and genitals.
Magnetic resonance imaging or imaging with radio waves and magnetic fields has selected uses.
Suspicion of a kidney disease with cysts should prompt talking with a child-care kidney specialist.
Pre-birth management should be personalized to different degress of disease severity.
After renal oligohydramnios (diseases where scarce fluid surrounds the fetus due to kidney damage), we recommend delivery in a preganancy-specialized center.
Newborns should not be denied kidney replacement therapy because of age.
Children with a single, enlarged, nonfunctional kidney with cysts do not need regular imaging or kidney removal, but long-term kidney-related follow-ups (as do children with single or multiple kidney abnormalities with cysts).
ARPKD (autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease), an inherited disorder of many kidney cysts, nephronophthisis (kidney inflammation), Bardet-Biedl syndrome (an inherited disorder that impairs kidneys, eyes, and more), and specific liver-related gene mutations cause disease outside the kidneys. Genetic testing is advisable.
Children with an inherited disorder leading to tumors in the skin, brain, kidney and more, or a high risk of tumors (e.g. von Hippel Lindau syndrome) or kidney cysts should have regular ultrasounds.
Even children without symptoms and of parents with ADPKD (a similar variant of ARPKD) should be monitored for high blood pressure and protein in the urine.
Examining for ADPKD in minors via ultrasound or genes should only be done after in-depth counseling.
Simple fluid-filled sacs are very rare in children. ADPDK in parents should be excluded.
Compex fluid-filled sacs in the kidney need further investigation.
