What could possibly cause a cyst in the lower pole of the kidney?

This guideline was developed by all relevant German pediatric medical societies, which are groups that represent medical professionals that focus on pediatric or child-concerned medicine.
An ultrasound is a type of x-ray to see images inside the body and is the common method to view kidney cysts (growths) before and after birth. This method can also exclude cysts in the stomach (abdomen) and inside the genitals.
An MRI also takes images of the body and may also be needed in some cases.
Suspicion of a cystic kidney disease should lead to consulting a kidney specialist of children.
Care provided during pregnancy should align with how serious the disease is and will be slightly different for each patient.
Oligohydramnios occur when there is too little amniotic fluid (the fluid that surrounds the baby in the womb) and can sometimes be caused by kidney dysfunction. With this condition, it is recommended that delivery occurs in a birth-delivering center where specialty care is available.
Newborns should not be denied therapy that replaces the normal blood-filtering function of the kidneys just because of their age.
Children with unilateral multicystic dysplastic kidney, where one kidney is large with cysts and is not functioning, do not require routine x-rays or surgery to remove one or both kidneys. However they will need long-term follow-up with kidney specialists (as do children with other kidney problems where one or both kidneys are not working well and have cysts).
Certain diseases such as ARPKD (autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease - an inherited kidney disease with cysts), nephronophthisis (kidney scarring), and Bardet-Biedl syndrome (a full-body, inherited disease), as well as genetic changes, cause disease outside the kidney, and genetic testing for these conditions is recommended.
Children with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC - a rare disease that leads to noncancerous tumors forming in the body) or a high risk of developing tumors or kidney cysts should have regular ultrasounds to take images of the inside of the body.
Even children of parents with ADPKD (autosomal dominant PKD) who do not have symptoms should be monitored for high blood pressure and increased levels of protein in the urine.
Testing for ADPKD in minors using an ultrasound or genetic testing should only be done after a great deal of counseling.
Simple cysts are very rare in children, and ADPKD in a parent should be excluded.
Complex kidney cysts require more investigation.
