Had pfizer covid vac. Should i get moderna booster?

Boosters to prevent SARS-CoV-2 infections in those who had the first vaccines are needed because the amount of body substances that protect against the virus goes down and people get COVID-19, which is called breakthrough infections.
Although 80 out of 100 people in Singapore had 2 doses of a COVID-19 vaccine, COVID-19 surged in September 2021 as the social distancing and quarantine rules were relaxed.
Adults 60 years and older who got the first vaccine at least 6 months before were invited to get a booster of Pfizer or Moderna.
We estimated SARS-CoV-2 infections and disease severity after getting a booster and by type of booster.

Rates and severity of SARS-CoV-2 infections between September 15 and October 31, 2021, among those eligible to receive vaccine boosters were studied.
COVID-19 patients were found through testing of those with symptoms and high-risk workers and close contacts without symptoms.
We measured infections confirmed by tests and severe disease (requiring oxygen support, intensive care admission, or death due to COVID-19).
People who got the boosters 12 days before were included in the booster group, and non-booster group otherwise.
Depending on the day of observation, a person could be in either group.
We estimated getting infected and severe disease between booster and non-booster groups that got the first vaccination with Pfizer or Moderna.
We accounted for the patients' sex, race, housing type, age, and the date of second vaccine that may be related to the strength of protection. 
We observed the rate of infection in those who got the same booster as the first vaccine and a different vaccine as booster. 

Out of 703,209 people who were allowed to have a booster during the study, 576,132 got boosters.

More than half of the people were 60 to 69 years old, a third 70 to 79 years, and a tenth of the people were 0 years and older. Slightly more than half of the people were women.
Among those for whom the first vaccine and the booster was Pfizer, about 230 people got COVID-19 and about 2 had severe disease. Among those who had the first Pfizer vaccine but no booster, 600 got COVID-19 and 20 had severe disease.

Among those who had a different booster, about 150 people got COVID-19 and about 2 had severe disease.
Among those who had Moderna as their first vaccine and booster, about 134  got COVID-19.
Among those who first had Moderna and then a Pfizer booster, about 100 had COVID-19.
The number of severe infections among those who had Moderna as the first vaccine was too small to count.
People who got different boosters had less COVID-19 infections than those boosted with the same vaccine as the first.
People who first had Pfizer and then any booster had less severe disease than those who did not have boosters. 
This study has limitations, such as not knowing why people decided for or against boosters, short time between the booster and the study, and no data from younger age groups.
The study supports having vaccine boosters. Boosting with different vaccines may provide greater protection against COVID-19.
