How common is pallister-hall syndrome?

Pallister-Hall syndrome (PHS) ranges from mild to severe cases. Mild cases include polydactyly, in which people have six fingers or toes,  a harmless split in the epiglottis (a small leaf-shaped structure that prevents food and drink from entering the windpipe) and hypothalamic hamartoma, a noncancerous growth in the base of the brain that can cause seizures and other problems. The severe cases include laryngotracheal cleft, a defect in which the baby's airway and food passages are connected, which can lead to newborn's death if the food and saliva get into the lungs. 
Mild PHS might be confused with babies having one or more extra finger or toe at birth, called postaxial polydactyly type A. 
In people with PHS pituitary gland, located in the brain, might not produce enough hormones (substances that regulate growth, metabolism and other functions). People with PHS may have adrenal insufficiency, a condition in which the adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones to control blood pressure, metabolism and the immune system. If these conditions are not recognized and treated in newborns, they may die. 
Hypothalamic hamartoma (non-cancer growth in the brain) and extra fingers or toes may be caused by Pallister-Hall syndrome.
Genetic testing confirms the patients have PHS.
Urgent treatments are needed if the glands do not produce enough hormones, especially cortisol. The defect in the flap that covers the windpipe needs treatment if it can lead to problems with breathing. 
Bifid epiglottis, the split in the flap that covers the windpipe, typically does not need treatment.
Standard treatments are used for problems with anus, such as narrowing of the anal canal. Patients can choose to repair extra fingers. Seizures are treated as needed. Special education and other support are provided for developmental delays.
Treatments of the problems caused by PHS can have complications. After surgery for the hypothalamic hamartoma patients may need to take hormones for the rest of their life. Drugs for attention deficit disorder may cause or worsen seizures.
Every year, children with PHS need evaluation of their mental development, growth, and signs of their body changing into that of an adult (puberty) too soon.
Either parent passes down the disease. 
A child will have PHS if either parent passes down the disease or if a new variant develops before birth. 
About a quarter of the PHS patients have a new harmful variant.
Persons with a new harmful variant have a more severe disease than those with a family history of PHS.
Chances of getting or not getting the disease from the parent  are equal. 
If the harmful variant runs in the family, the developing baby may be tested during pregnancy. 
It is not known if ultrasound during pregnancy will show PHS.
