I have had a kidney stone in for almost three years. It’s killing me and none even noticed it till now, even on ultrasound, how will it be taken out?

The mini percutaneous nephrolithotomy (mini-PCNL) has become a versatile tool to remove kidney stones >2 cm, lower pole stones >1 cm, renal stones previously unresponsive to shockwave therapy or inaccessible by ureteroscopy (within a caliceal diverticulum), stones within complex urinary tracts (urinary diversions, transplanted kidney, and horseshoe kidneys), and large impacted proximal ureteral stones.
After positioning in either the supine or prone position, a cystoscopy is performed to place an open-ended catheter, occlusion balloon, or Accordian device into the collecting system.
A foley catheter is placed in the bladder.
An ultrasound with a curvilinear probe is used to survey the kidney and guide access into the collecting system with an 18 g percutaneous needle.
Once access is obtained, a small 0.5 cm skin incision is made and the percutaneous tract is dilated over a wire.
A 16.5F metallic or self-dilating suctioning access sheath is positioned with fluoroscopic guidance.
A 12F rigid mini-PCNL nephroscope is used to evaluate the collecting system.
Once a calculus is observed, options for stone fragmentation include a lithotripter with ultrasonic and ballistic energy, or laser lithotripsy using holmium or thulium laser fibers.
Flexible ureteroscopy can be considered to ensure clearance of the collecting system.
A 6F ureteral stent can be placed in either a retrograde or antegrade approach for drainage.
The tract is sealed using Surgiflo hemostatic matrix with thrombin.
Guidelines for postoperative care and troubleshooting techniques for mini-PCNL are reviewed along with the surgical steps in the accompanying video (Supplementary Video S1).
There are few randomized trials comparing mini-PCNL with standard PCNL and ureteroscopy.
There is some evidence to suggest a difference in transfusion rates comparing mini- and standard PCNL, as well as differences in stone-free rates when comparing mini-PCNL with ureteroscopy for the treatment of lower pole stones.
