I have had a kidney stone in for almost three years. It’s killing me and none even noticed it till now, even on ultrasound, how will it be taken out?

Introducing lithotripsy, a non-surgical method to break masses like kidney stones into pieces, into medical practice changes the type of complications that may occur after operations.
The main complications are inflammatory infections that may result in pain, redness, or swelling.
New and improved methods of breaking down stones, avoiding small stone fragments and sending them through the kidneys to be released through urine are searched.
The authors develop a method to break stones using a continuous-wave diode laser, which is a constant stream of laser light that can also reduce the scattering of stones by using a hot-spot or energy-focused effect.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of controlling the fragmenting of urinary stones (hard masses of minerals in the bladder), using a continuous-wave diode laser as a method of preventing inflammatory infections.
Researchers analyzed 1666 cases of patients with kidney stones who underwent different methods to remove kidney stones. These methods include percutaneous nephrolithotripsy/nephrolithoextraction (removal of stones by a small incision through the skin and stones pulled out of the incision) and ureterolithotripsy/ureteroextraction (when a flexible tube is inserted through the bladder and the ureter which connects the kidneys and bladder and stones are found with a camera and removed). An additional analysis on 90 patients is also done on patients with stones that were fragmented into tiny pieces using different lithotripters, non-surgical devices that crush stones using shock waves.
The method of controlled stone fragmentation by a diode laser with a hot-spot effect is tested on samples of 26 kidney stones during or after operations.
For the first time in clinical practice, this method is tested in the bladder (with 10 patients).
In the group that underwent a small incision to remove the stone, infections and inflammation complications after the procedure occurred in 34.1% of cases. In the group that had stones removed from the incision (nephrolithoextraction) had complications in 24.6%, and in the ureterolithotripsy group where a tube and camera are used, there are 7.8% cases with complications. In the ureterolithoextraction group, there are complications in 2.5%.
The analysis makes it possible to find things that lead to the development of infectious or inflammatory complications.
For the first time, there are successfully performed ten operations of stone fragmentation using a continuous-wave diode laser with a hot-spot effect.
Controlling the scattering of fragments of stones makes it possible to reduce the number of infectious and inflammatory complications and is done in the bladder as an example for testing this method.
In conclusion, using a laser to control fragmented stones with the hot spot effect is a promising way to prevent infection and inflammation complications in patients with possibly infected stones since small pieces of stones and their spread within the urinary system is avoided.
