I have had a kidney stone in for almost three years. It’s killing me and none even noticed it till now, even on ultrasound, how will it be taken out?

Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) is a procedure to break up stones in the body by using shock waves and an X-ray to target the stones. Researchers search for the effects of patient characteristics (age, sex, and body mass index or BMI) and stone characteristics (density, location, and size) on how successful ESWL procedure is on stones in the kidneys, ureters (tubes that carry urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder), and bladder.
This study is intended to increase the knowledge of doctors on the effect of different patient characteristics on predicting how successful using extra-corporal shock wave lithotripsy is.
Researchers evaluate 155 patients who receive ESWL for stones in the kidney and ureter (tube that carries urine from the kidney to the bladder) over a 3-month period.
The stone size in millimeters (mm), density, and its location is determined using an x-ray scan before patients received treatment.
ESWL is considered to be successful if the size of remaining kidney stone fragments after the procedure are ≤3 mm and if ureteric stones are totally cleared.
The overall success of ESWL treatment was observed in 65.8% of the 155 patients.
There is no major difference seen when the effect of age, sex, and BMI of patients are studied with ESWL outcomes.
Also, stone location either in the kidney or ureter (the tube that carries urine from the kidney to the bladder) has no statistically significant effect (not likely to happen randomly or by chance) on the success of ESWL.
Stone density and size based on the scanned images have a statistically significant effect on the success rate of ESWL.
In conclusion, this study shows that finding out the density and size of stones using a scanned x-ray image before extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) can help predict the outcome of ESWL.
Researchers of this study suggest that low stone density and size are highly likely to result in successful ESWL.
