I have had a kidney stone in for almost three years. It’s killing me and none even noticed it till now, even on ultrasound, how will it be taken out?

Mini percutaneous nephrolithotomy (mini-PCNL) is when a doctor makes a small incision in the patient and uses a small camera to help remove kidney stones. The mini-PNCL has become a useful tool to remove kidney stones of different sizes, stones that did not respond to other treatments, and it can also remove stones in the urinary tract, the body's drainage system to remove urine.
When lying either flat on the back (supine position) or on the stomach and face down (prone position), a hollow tube with a lens is inserted into the urethra tube that goes to bladder to allow another device such as a catheter (a clean tube that goes into the bladder) into the collecting system which is the series of tubes and ducts of the kidney.
A foley catheter (soft tube that is inserted into your bladder to drain urine) is placed in the bladder.
An ultrasound (a technology that uses sound waves to take images of the inside the body) is used to look at the kidney and guide access to the collecting system with a needle.
Once access is obtained, a small incision (cut) on the skin is made, and the tract through the skin is increased in size.
A device called a suctioning access sheath is positioned to act like a vacuum and absorb fragments.
A mini-PCNL nephroscope (telescope with camera) is used to evaluate the collecting system.
Once the kidney stone is seen, options to break it up include a machine that pulverizes stones with shock waves or ballistic energy, or a laser is used to break up kidney stones.
A flexible tube can be used to ensure removal from the collecting system.
A thin, flexible tube that holds ureters (tubes that carry urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder) open called a stent can be used for drainage.
The tract is sealed.
Guidelines for care after the procedure and for troubleshooting techniques for mini-PCNL are reviewed along with the surgical steps in an available video.
There are few clinical trials comparing mini percutaneous nephrolithotomy (mini-PNCL) with standard percutaneous nephrolithotomy and ureteroscopy, a procedure where a small telescope is inserted through the urethra and bladder and up the ureter tube to where the stone is located.
There is some evidence to suggest a difference in those needing blood transfusions or transfers when comparing mini- and standard PCNL, as well as differences in stone-free rates when comparing mini-PCNL with ureteroscopy for the treatment of lower pole stones, common kidney stones that are unlikely to pass on their own.
