Where do bhd patients get cysts?

Loss-of-function mutations in the folliculin gene, which helps suppress tumor growth, cause Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome, which is associated with cystic lung disease, a group of diseases that cause cysts (sacs of air) in the lungs.
The risk of lung collapse, which is when air leaks into the space between the lung and chest wall, in Birt-Hogg-Dube patients is 50 times higher than in the general population.
The cystic lung disease in Birt-Hogg-Dube is different from other cystic lung diseases because the cysts tend to be at the base of the lung, under the layer of tissue that wraps the lungs and is shaped like a lentil or lens.
Recent advances to understand the main functions of the folliculin protein have been made.
In addition, in just the last 3 years, the impact of a folliculin gene impairment on the lungs was examined for the first time.
In experiments with mice, evidence emerged that another protein called AMPK that signals to other cells and cells connecting to other cells is involved when air gets trapped in the lungs.
Also, how human Birt-Hogg-Dube cysts are formed and how they progress has been recently described.
The "stretch hypothesis" proposes that cysts in Birt-Hogg-Dube form because of defects in how cells connect to one another, leading to repeated stretching of the lungs and, over time, expansion of different parts of the lung.
This idea ties together many of the new data from cell and mouse studies of Birt-Hogg-Dube and from the human studies of the disease.
Critical questions remain.
These questions include how the stretch-induced cyst formation are formed, if the first formation of a cyst involves a second genetic change, and whether the formation of a cyst involves just the surface of the lung or an interaction between the lung surface and cells under tissues.
Overall, understanding the processes of cystic lung disease in Birt-Hogg-Dube may help to understand how it leads to sudden collapse of the lung, with more than 20,000 cases a year in the United States.
