How is scn1a gene disorder tested?

For the study's background, in childhood epilepsy, genetic causes are increasingly recognized in recent years with the use of gene labeling or sequencing.
This has increased the scope of individualized medicine in unmanageable epileptic seizures or epilepsy, particularly epileptic encephalopathy (EE) (epilepsy that damages the brain).
Developmental disorder (DD) (impairments in a child's growth) is an important part of childhood uncontrolled epilepsy.
This study was performed to measure the genetic causes of childhood epilepsy and DD.
In this study, 40 children with epilepsy and DD with genetic mutations were included via prior records.
It was done in a specialized care hospital of Bangladesh from January 2019 to December 2020.
Genetic study was done by state-of-the-art gene labeling or sequencing.
In all cases electroencephalography (measuring electrical acitvity of the brain) and neuroimaging (imaging the brain) was done and reviewed.
In total, 40 children were enrolled. The average age was 41.4±35.850 months with a male majority (67.5%).
Generalized seizure was the main type of seizure.
Regarding the links, reduced intelligence and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or ADHD was common.
Seventeen cases had genetically identified EE developed during infancy. Common gene mutations observed were SCN1A (3), SCN8A (2), SLC1A2 (2), KCNT1 (2), and etc (genes linked with epilepsy).
Five patients of worsening, muscle-jerk-related epilepsy were identified. The mutations identified were in KCTD7, MFSD8, and CLN6 genes.
Three cases had mitochondrial gene mutation (MT-ND5, MT-CYB) (genes that affect the mitochondria or the powerhouse of the cell).
Some rare diseases like Gibbs syndrome (brain disorder with weak muscle tone), Kohlschütter-Tönz syndrome (genetic disorder with seizures), Cockayne syndrome (delayed development disorder), Pitt-Hopkins syndrome (child development disorder) and cerebral creatine deficiency (creatine-metabolizing disorder) were identified.
In conclusion, this is the first study from Bangladesh on genetics of epilepsy and DD.
This will help to improve the understanding of genetics epilepsy of this region and contribute in giving individualized medicine in these patients.
