How can covid cause cell injury?

Senescent cells are cells that are no longer able to divide but are still active. Senescent cells become active when damage-associated signals are triggered. These cells are resistant to cell death. They can also release tissue damaging, senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). This means these cells release high levels of inflammatory (infection-fighting) cells.
The authors of this report recently reported that a protein associated with the coronavirus or virus for COVID-19 (a viral, breathing-related disease) can increase SASP within cultured (grown within a lab) human cells. Additionally, the authors reported that a specific strain of mouse coronavirus increases SASP and the amount of senescent cells within sickened mice.
In this study, the authors demonstrate that COVID-19 causes cells to become senescent and overactive SASP in human senescent cells through a specific immune system receptor known as Toll-like receptor-3 (TLR-3). Immune receptors are structures that bind to the surface of a cell and causes a response.
TLR-3 can detect virus RNA or genetic material. TLR-3 was increased in human senescent cells compared to those not in a state of senescence.
The blocking of TLR-3 prevented senescence causation and SASP amplification from occurring following COVID-19 or Spike pseudo-typed virus (a virus manipulated to not replicate).
An artificial TLR-3 agonist, a substance that induces a specific response similar to the original, was not strong enough to induce or cause senescence. However, it did amplify SASP in senescent human cells.
Consistent with these findings, the amount of senescent cells within lungs was increased in patients who died from acute COVID-19 infection when compared to patients who passed away for other reasons.
These results suggest increased cell senescence and SASP through TLR-3 contributed to COVID-19 death. This indicates that clinical trials of senolytics (drugs that only kill senescent cells) or SASP/TLR-3 inhibitors or blockers are needed. These trials may help reduce short- and long-term effects of COVID-19.
