How can covid cause cell injury?

Recent scientific reports suggest that increased endothelial activation plays a key role in the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and multi-organ failure seen within patients of COVID-19 (a viral, breathing-related disease). Endothelial cells line our organs within our body, especially blood vessels. When these cells become activated, they encourage inflammation (redness and swelling from fighting an infection) and blood clotting or scabbing.
However, how COVID-19 causes this endothelial cell activation is unclear.
In this study, COVID-19 virus proteins (small molecules within the virus that help it function) were analyzed. The goal of analyzing the proteins was to determine how they might activate endothelial cells.
This study found a specific protein of COVID-19 that highly activated endothelial cells through two specific bodily pathways.
Secondly, the authors identified a prescription medication, known as Simvastatin, that can reduce the identified endothelial activation.
The authors also noted that the identified protein only caused endothelial activation in COVID-19 illness.
This protein in other illnesses, such as SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, HUB1-CoV and influenza virus H1N1, did not activate endothelial cells.
These scientific findings match with results from clinical research (research within patients). Clinical research has shown broad endothelial cell inflammation and organ injury within COVID-19 patients.
The authors concluded this paper increases current knowledge surrounding how COVID-19 impacts blood vessels and blood flow within patients. Additionally, this paper suggested simvastatin may help prevent damage and improve overall health within COVID-19 patients.
COVID-19, caused by a coronavirus, is a worldwide challenge for health-care.
The leading cause of death in those with COVID-19 is lack of oxygen in the blood from a breathing-related illness.
To date, cells that line the lungs and its blood vessels have been overlooked as a therapy target in COVID-19, yet new evidence suggests these cells contribute to the start and spread of breathing-related illnesses by changing blood vessel structures, promoting clotting, causing inflammation, and influencing inflammatory cell reactions.
Therefore, a better understanding of the blood vessels Is of great importance.
In this study, we tested COVID-19 virus proteins that activate these blood-vessel lining cells and found that viral proteins activate these cells through phosphate-related pathways.
Also, by testing a natural microorganism library with 154 natural compounds, simvastatin was found to be a powerful blocker of the viral-caused lining cell activation.
Our results give insights on the viral-caused blood- and blood vessel-related diseases, and suggests that simvastatin, an FDA-approved fat-lowering drug, may help prevent these diseases and improve outcomes for COVID-19 patients.
