How can covid cause cell injury?

Some patients suffer complications from anti-viral immune responses, or the response their body creates when infected with a virus. These complications can lead to both a dangerous cytokine storm (proteins that control activity of immune and blood cells that flood the body) and development of blood-borne factors that increase the likelihood of blood clots or scabs.
Each person's unique immune response will likely determine and predict how a patient will react to infection. Therefore, each person's immune system represents a target for intervention to prevent harmful side effects.
In the early stages of infection, exhausted or overworked T cells (an immune system cell) can lead to disease progression.
Alteration of T cell functions often comes before a cytokine storm and neutrophil expansion, or the suppression of immune system. When these events occur in lung tissues, diseases are often even more damaging.
T cell function, cytokine production, and events that attract neutrophils (cells that sweep humans for signs of infection) to the lung can be changed by specifically targeting molecules that trigger T cell responses.
Manipulating T cell responses could provide the means to control the immune response in patients with COVID-19 (a viral, breathing-related disorder).
During the initial anti-viral response, T cell function can be enhanced by delaying anti-viral exhaustion by suppressing certain biological pathways.
Additionally, immune dysregulation or errors can be addressed by enhancing immune suppressor functions by targeting molecules that control cell metabolism.
Targeting cell metabolism pathways may also prevent formation of blood clots.
Furthermore, the cell metabolism pathway is needed for COVID-19 replication in host cells. Suppressing the pathway could potentially decrease the amount of virus within the host.
The overall goal is to identify biological targets than can control the immune response in COVID-19 patients to improve patient well-being.
Targeting specific pathways in the body could achieve this goal during each stage of the disease.
