How often can i get a covid-19 vaccine?

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccines are nothing short of a miracle story halting the pandemic across the globe.
Nearly half of the global population has received at least one dose.
Nevertheless, antibody blood levels in vaccinated people drop over time, and breakthrough infections have occurred.
We studied the trends in antibody blood levels six months after the second dose of the AZD1222 (ChAdOx1) AstraZeneca vaccine.
We conducted a 6 month study after the second of two AZD1222 (ChAdOx1) vaccine doses in healthcare professionals and healthcare facility employees at Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. The study population included doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, security and sanitary workers, and students.
Two doses of the vaccine were injected into the upper arm, with 28 to 30 days between doses.
We collected blood samples one month after the first dose (Round 1), one month after the second dose (Round 2), and six months after the second dose (Round 3).
We measured blood levels of antibodies against the spike protein of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).
We used statistical methods to measure the change in antibody blood levels over time.
Our study included 122 participants (mean age, 41.5 years; 66 men, 56 women).
Antibody blood levels were 138.01 in Round 1, increased to 1,176.48 in Round 2, and dropped to 112.95 in Round 3.
Seven participants showed a complete loss of measurable blood antibodies, and 11 had breakthrough infections.
Eighty-six participants showed a substantial decline in antibody levels from Rounds 2 to 3.
Persons aged 45 or older had higher antibody levels than people aged younger than 45 years.
Overweight and obese people (body mass index larger than 25) had higher antibody levels than average or underweight persons.
The only people who maintained high levels of antibodies at 6 months were in people who had been infected with SARS-CoV2.
We found a substantial decline in antibody levels leading to seven cases of loss of antibodies in healthcare professionals who received the ChAdOx1 vaccine.
A history of prior COVID-19 infection was the only significant reason for high antibody levels at six months.
More research needs to be conducted on the optimal timing and potential benefits of booster doses of the AZD1222 (ChAdOx1) COVID-19 vaccine to avoid breakthrough infections or loss of immunity.
