What causes low alkaline phosphate levels?

The study aimed to define the health, biochemical, and genetic features of adult patients with bone strength issues and low serum (blood) alkaline phosphatase (sALP), a protein that helps bone strength.
Twenty-two patients with at least two sALP measurements below the desired range were enrolled. Any patients with additional disease or health complications were excluded.
Several data points for patient health and biological indicators of disease status were collected.
Patient DNA was analyzed to detect ALPL gene anomalies.
Several types of mutations within the ALPL gene were found amongst the participant population. These variants include pathogenic (harmful) ALPL variants (pALPL), benign (harmless) variants (bALPL), and wild-type (normal) variants (wtALPL). pALPL are variants that increases a person's chance to get sick from a disease. bALPL are mutations that do not impact human health. wtALPL variants are genes that are not mutated or changed in form.
Bone and tooth damage were more frequent in patients harboring pALPL and bALPL than in wtALPL patients.
Of note, wtALPL patients comprised women treated with tamoxifen, a drug for breast cancer.
Mineral and bone markers were similar in the three groups.
Average urine phosphoethanolamine, a compound that can indicate bone disease, was significantly higher in patients with pALPL than the other two variant types. By contrast, serum pyridoxal-5'-phosphate, an indicator of vitamin B6 volume, was similar in the three groups.
Certain hospital evaluation techniques were able to predict pALPL and bALPL.
In patients with osteoporosis (brittle bones), visible health effects and biological compound indicators do not distinguish hypophosphatasemia (low serum ALP) patients harboring pALPL or bALPL variants from those harboring wtALPL.
However, visible health effects and biological compound indicators can be predictive of ALPL anomalies. Therefore, they should be carefully identified.
Tamoxifen emerged as a drug to treat hypophosphatasemia.
