What causes low alkaline phosphate levels?

Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is a rare and under-recognized genetic defect in bone mineralization. Bone mineralization is when bone become calcified.
Patients presenting with fragility fractures may be mistakenly diagnosed as having osteoporosis (brittle bones). These patients may be prescribed antiresorptive therapy, or drugs that block the breakdown of bone. These drugs may increase fracture risk.
Adult-onset HPP was identified in a 40-year-old woman. She had with femur fractures after 4 years of using denosumba, a drug to treat osteoporosis.
A low serum (blood) alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and increased serum vitamin B6 level signaled the diagnosis. Her diagnosis of HPP was later confirmed by identification of two recessive gene mutations of the ALPL gene. ALP is an enzyme that helps bone strength. ALPL is the gene that encodes ALP.
The patient was treated with teriparatide (an osteoporosis drug) due to the unavailability of ALP enzyme-replacement therapy.
The fractures healed. However, her mobility was impaired.
HPP makes someone more likely to experience femur fractures during antiresorptive therapy. Because of this, bisphosphonates (drugs that limit bone density) and denosumab should not be given to people with this condition.
Healthcare workings should screen patients with fracture or 'osteoporosis' to identify a low ALP level.
HPP is a rare and under-recognized cause of bone fragility. HPP is caused by impaired mineralization that can be misdiagnosed as a fragility fracture due to age-related bone loss.
Antiresorptive therapy is not recommended in HPP treatment.
Low serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) can aid in diagnosis.
Elevated serum vitamin B6 (a chemical that works with ALP) is suggestive of HPP. Identifying mutations within the ALPL gene can confirm HPP status.
Therapy with a chemical ALP reacts with, known as asfotase alfa, is currently unmanageably expensive.
Treatment with anabolic (repairing) bone agents has been reported. However, if this treatment helps normally mineralized bone form needs further study.
