What causes low alkaline phosphate levels?

Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is a disease caused by mutations within the gene ALPL. Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is the heritable, tooth and bone disease. The gene ALPL encodes for alkaline phosphatase (ALP), an enzyme that helps bone strength.
Low levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) are a hallmark of the disease.
There is little knowledge about the prevalence of HPP in Scandinavia. Due to the variation in HPP clinical presentations, diagnosing the disease is challenging.
The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of ALPL variants (gene types). The study also aimed to identify HPP biological identifiers among adults. This study was specifically interested in adults with HPP along with endocrine (hormonal) disorders and persistent hypophosphatasemia (low body phosphorus levels).
A database containing ALP measurements of 26,121 individuals was reviewed to identify adults above 18 years of age with persistently low levels of ALP.
ALPL genetic testing, evaluation of body compound levels, and assessment of health by a systematic questionnaire among included patients, were performed.
Among 24 participants, thirteen subjects revealed a disease-causing variant in ALPL and reported mild health effects of HPP. Of these mild health effects, musculoskeletal pain was the most frequently reported.
The same genetic variant was identified in six subjects. An unreported missense (gene-altered) variant and a genetic deletion were detected by genetic screening.
Analysis of compound levels within the body showed no significant differences between patients with an ALPL variant and negative (no-detection) genetic screening.
Patients with a variant in ALPL had significantly higher PLP levels than control patients.
Normal ALP activity was observed in some patients classified as mild HPP. A slightly increased level of PLP was found in two subjects with normal genetic screening and four healthy controls.
Among 51 patients with persistent hypophosphatasemia, 15 received treatment to increase bone strength.
Two patients with undiagnosed HPP were treated with bisphosphonates, drugs that slow bone loss. They did not show complications due to the treatment.
Genetic variations in ALPL are common among patients with endocrine disorders and low ALP.
Genetic testing is necessary to identify mild HPP due to fluctuating body compound level findings.
Treatment to increase bone strength is a frequent reason for hypophosphatasemia. Effects of these agents in adults with a variant in ALPL and osteoporosis (brittle bones) remain unclear and require further studies.
