What causes low alkaline phosphate levels?

Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is the heritable, tooth and bone disease. HPP is caused by mutations of the gene ALPL. ALPL encodes the tissue-nonspecific isoenzyme of alkaline phosphatase (TNSALP). TNSALP is an enzyme that assists in breaking down phosphate groups. Phosphate groups are important in activating proteins.
TNSALP is expressed in healthy people, especially in the skeleton, liver, kidneys, and developing teeth.
In HPP, decreased TNSALP activity leads to extracellular accumulation of its natural substrates, including pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP). PLP is the principal circulating form of vitamin B6 (B6).
Different mutations of ALPL largely explains the remarkably broad-ranging severity of this genetic inborn-error-of-metabolism.
In 1985, elevated (blood) plasma PLP was identified as hallmark of HPP. In the study, all 14 investigated affected children and adults had increased PLP levels.
However, pyridoxal (PL), an alternate form of PLP that enters cells to cofactor (help) many enzymatic reactions, was often unexplainably elevated.
Levels of pyridoxic acid (PA), a compound used to determine B6 levels in the body, were unremarkable.
Signs or symptoms of B6 deficiency or toxicity were absent.
B6-dependent seizures in infants with life-threatening HPP were later explained by their low TNSALP activity. Lack of TNSALP activity was blocking PLP dephosphorylation, removal of phosphate groups, to PL. This diminished formation of gamma-aminobutyric acid, a neurotransmitter, in the brain.
It is theorized that abnormal B6 metabolism causes further health complications in HPP.
This study assessed (measured) the blood PL and PA levels in patients with previously reported elevated plasma PLP concentrations. The evaluated patient pool consisted of 150 children and adolescents with HPP.
Their average plasma PL level was nearly double the average of healthy pediatric controls.
Their PA levels were broader than our pediatric (child) control range with a normal average value.
In contrast, adults with HPP often had plasma PL and PA levels that suggest a dietary B6 insufficiency.
This paper discusses why B6 levels of children with HPP would not cause B6 toxicity or deficiency, whereas in affected adults dietary B6 insufficiency can develop.
