What causes low alkaline phosphate levels?

Most adults with persistently low serum (blood) alkaline phosphatase values have a mutation in the ALPL gene that encodes it. These adults also most likely have elevated alkaline phosphatase substrate values in serum and urine. Alkaline phosphatase can indicate bone health.
These adults may suffer from the adult form of hypophosphatasia, an inherited disorder that affects bone and tooth development.
The aim of this study was to determine what proportion of adults with hypophosphatasemia (low serum alkaline phosphatase) also have ALPL gene mutations or elevated alkaline phosphatase (ALP) substrates.
Some adults with hypophosphatasemia share observable or radiographic (seen through x-ray) features with the adult form of hypophosphatasia (HPP).
In HPP, ALPL mutations cause persistent hypophosphatasemia and ALP substrate (protein) accumulation in plasma (pyridoxal-5-phosphate (PLP)) and urine (phosphoethanolamine (PEA)).
Analyses of compounds from biological samples, including serum ALP activity, bone-specific ALP, plasma PLP, and urine PEA, were performed in adults with persistent hypophosphatasemia.
Analysis to determine ALPL mutations were performed.
Variations of the gene ALPL were classified as pathogenic (P), likely pathogenic (LP), variants of uncertain significance (VUS), likely benign (LB), and benign (B). Pathogenic mutations often make a person more susceptible to disease. Benign mutations do not affect human health.
P and LP variants were further grouped as "Positive ALPL variants" and LB and B grouped as "Negative ALPL variants." A total of 50 subjects completed all mutational and biochemical analyses.
Sixteen percent carried only Negative ALPL variants.
Of the remaining 42 subjects, 67% were heterozygous for a P variant, 19% for an LP variant, and 14% for a VUS.
Biochemical results were associated with the inverse (opposite) relationship between ALP and its substrates.
Subjects harboring Positive ALPL variants had lower ALP and BSAP and higher PLP and PEA values.
Approximately half of all subjects harboring Positive ALPL variants or ALPL VUS showed elevations in plasma PLP. Most also showed elevations in urine PEA.
Adults with persistent hypophosphatasemia often have ALPL mutations and have elevated ALP substrates.
These adults may fall within the spectrum of the adult form of hypophosphatasia.

Clinicians should note long-lasting hypophosphatasia in patients and be cautious in giving them anit-bone-breakdown drugs.
