What causes low alkaline phosphate levels?

Many adults with persistently low blood levels of alkaline phosphatase, a protein that influences levels of the high-energy molecule phosphate, possibly have a mutation in the ALPL gene that encodes alkaline phosphatase. Many adults also have increased phosphate-carrying compounds in blood and urine.
These adults may have low blood phosphate levels (hypophosphatasia).
The study determines what proportion of adults with persistently low blood alkaline phosphatase levels (hypophosphatasemia) have mutations in the ALPL gene or accumulated phosphate-carrying compounds.
Some adults with persistent hypophosphatasemia share symptoms with the adult form of low blood phosphate levels or hypophosphatasia (HPP).
In HPP, ALPL mutations lead to persistent hypophosphatasemia and phosphate-carrying compounds in blood (pyridoxal-5-phosphate (PLP) or active vitamin B6) and urine (phosphoethanolamine (PEA) or a key molecule to build cell boundaries).
Blood ALP activity, bone-specific ALP, blood PLP, and urine PEA were measured in adults with persistently low levels of ALP.

Variations of the ALPL gene were classified as disease-causing or pathogenic (P), likely pathogenic (LP), variants of uncertain significance (VUS), likely harmless or benign (LB), and benign (B).
P and LP variants were also grouped as "Positive ALPL variants". LB and B were grouped as "Negative ALPL variants."
Fifty subjects completed all the tests.
Sixteen percent had only Negative ALPL variatns.
Of the remaining 42, 67% had at least one copy of the P variant, 19% for an LP variant, and 14% for a VUS.
Tests results agreed with each other and showed that the amount of ALP trended oppositely with the quantity of the molecules that it acts upon.
Those with Positive ALPL variants had lower ALP and bone-specific ALP and had higher PLP and PEA than those with Negative ALPL variants.
Around half of those with Positive ALPL variants or ALPL VUS had increases in blood PLP. Three quarters had increases in urine PEA.
Adults with persistently low ALP levels frequently had ALPL mutations and increased phosphate-carrying compounds.
These adults may have low blood phosphate levels.
