How to increase body immunity against covid 19?

There are suggested food, vaccination, drugs, and supplements for the immune system (a complex network of tissues, organs, cells, and proteins that defends the body against infection) to fight COVID-19, a viral breathing-related disease.
According to the World Health Organization, healthy foods and drinking plenty of water are vital.
People who eat a well-balanced diet are healthier with a strong immune system and have a reduced risk of chronic (long-lasting or recurring) illness and infectious diseases.
Vitamins and minerals in the body are vital.
Vitamin B that cannot dissolve in water protects the body from infection.
Vitamin C provides protection from flu-like symptoms.
Low levels of vitamin D and vitamin E in the body can lead to coronavirus infection, the virus that leads to COVID-19.
Vitamin D is found in sunlight, and vitamin E is found in foods such as oil, seeds, and fruits.
Low levels of iron (a mineral that helps the body grow and develop) and too much iron can risk infection.
Zinc is a key mineral in the body necessary for keeping the immune system healthy.
Food rich in protein should be the top priority because it helps the immune system create protective proteins to fight infections and also has the potential to detect or fight viruses.
Therefore, in a regular meal, individuals should eat fruit, vegetables, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and foods from animal sources (protein).
People should eat food from plants containing vitamin A and drink 8-10 cups of water every day.
Poor nutrition is dangerous for patients with COVID-19, so proper nutrition should be provided.
Fruit juice, tea, and coffee can also be consumed.
However, too much caffeine, sweetened fruit juices, fruit juice concentrates, syrups, fizzy drinks, and some still (non-carbonated) drinks must be avoided.
Unsaturated fats (healthy fats), white meats, and fish should be eaten.
Saturated fat (unhealthy fats that can lead to health problems), red meat, more than 5 grams of salt per day, and industry processed food should be avoided.
Along with diet, physical activity is another factor.
Individuals should be active and exercise regularly to boost the immune system and should also get enough quality sleep.
