In adult patients with total hip replacements how effective is pain medication in recovery?

Introduction: Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is reported to be one of the most painful surgical procedures.
Perioperative management and rehabilitation patterns are of great importance for the success of the procedure.
The aim of this cohort study was the evaluation of function, mobilization and pain scores during the inpatient stay (6 days postoperatively) and 4 weeks after fast-track THA.
Materials and methods: A total of 102 consecutive patients were included in this retrospective cohort trial after minimally invasive cementless total hip arthroplasty under spinal anesthesia in a fast-track setup.
The extent of mobilization under full-weight-bearing with crutches (walking distance in meters and necessity of nurse aid) and pain values using a numerical rating scale (NRS) were measured.
Function was evaluated measuring the range of motion (ROM) and the ability of sitting on a chair, walking and personal hygiene.
Furthermore, circumferences of thighs were measured to evaluate the extent of postoperative swelling.
The widespread Harris Hip Score (HHS) was used to compare results pre- and 4 weeks postoperatively.
Results: Evaluation of pain scores in the postoperative course showed a constant decrease in the first postoperative week (days 1-6 postoperatively).
The pain scores before surgery were significantly higher than surgery (day 6), during mobilization (p < 0.001), at rest (p < 0.001) and at night (p < 0.001).
All patients were able to mobilize on the day of surgery.
In addition, there was a significant improvement in independent activities within the first 6 days postoperatively: sitting on a chair (p < 0.001), walking (p < 0.001) and personal hygiene (p < 0.001).
There was no significant difference between the measured preoperative and postoperative (day 6 after surgery) thigh circumferences above the knee joint.
Compared to preoperatively, there was a significant (p < 0.001) improvement of the HHS 4 weeks after surgery.
In 100% of the cases, the operation was reported to be successful and all of the treated patients would choose a fast-track setup again.
Conclusion: Application of a fast-track scheme is effective regarding function and mobilization of patients.
Low pain values and rapid improvement of walking distance confirms the success of the fast-track concept in the immediate postoperative course.
Future prospective studies have to confirm the results comparing a conventional and a fast-track pathway.
