In adult patients with total hip replacements how effective is pain medication in recovery?

There are many options to control pain during joint replacement surgery to improve the patient experience. Doctors should consider the unique ways that each of these options works when using them before, during, and after surgery. Doctors should also keep in mind that each has different efficacy and side-effects.
Pain control before surgery or using anti-inflammatory drugs and opioid painkillers before the pain starts seems to work well to reduce pain after surgery. However, it is not clear what the recommended timing and type of treatment are.
Regarding the choice of anesthetic during surgery and pain control, anesthesia applied directly to the spine seems to have fewer general risks to the body than general anesthesia. In addition, injections of local anesthetics around the joint, regardless of technique, have been shown to improve pain scores following surgery and to have low risk overall. This is true whether the injections are used with or without adding other drugs, including those that control the body’s fight-or-flight response, opioids, NSAIDs or corticosteroids.
When considering pain control following surgery, there are several methods. These include cold therapy, disabling nerves with injection or electrical stimulation, and medicines take by mouth or otherwise. Options for medicines include Tylenol®, COX inhibitors, drugs that affect the brain, tramadol (sold as Ultram or Zytram), ketamine, and opioid patches. However, there is no clearly preferred treatment, and doctors need to consider individual risks faced by patients when choosing appropriate pain treatments.
Using multiple pain treatments at once can decrease opioid usage, improve pain scores, increase patient satisfaction, and enhance early recovery.
It is still not clear what the ideal medication plan to use before, during, and after surgery is. We recommend using an individualized approach to pain management around the time of surgery.
In spite of this, changes to existing ways of treating pain in the scientific literature have shown good results.
Using a multi-pronged approach to treat severe pain following surgery has the risk for serious side effects. These including slow or shallow breathing, changes in mental state that can affect walking, low blood pressure, kidney and liver problems, blood problems, stomach problems, including ulcers, constipation or bowel obstruction. Possible side effects also include nausea or vomiting, infection at injection sites, and nerve injury if nerves are disabled (peripheral blockade).
