In adult patients with total hip replacements how effective is pain medication in recovery?

In Total Hip Replacement (THR) and Total Knee Replacement (TKR), pain from surgery is managed with multiple types of anaesthesia used together.
It is not clear if applying a local anaesthetic directly to the wound before sewing it up provides additional pain control.
We systematically reviewed randomised controlled trials of using local anaesthetic in patients having THR or TKR.
We searched several medical literature databases up to December 2012.

The information we gathered from the studies was: pain after surgery, both at rest and during activity after 24 and 48 hours, whether opioids were needed, when and how much patients walked, hospital stay, and additional problems cause by the surgery.

In 13 studies including 909 patients having THR, patients that got local anaesthetic had a bigger reduction in pain at 24 hours at rest and at 48 hours during activity.
In TKR, various regimens using multiple types of anesthesia were reported.
In 23 studies including 1439 patients having TKR, using local anaesthetic reduced pain at 24 hours at rest and at 48 hours during activity, compared with patients receiving no local anesthetic, or placebo (sham treatment so patients were not biased).
In studies where more local anaesthetic was used after closing the wound, there was evidence of a bigger reduction.
There was no evidence of pain control on top of what was provided by femoral nerve block, a type of local anesthetic applied directly to a large nerve in the thigh.
Patients that got local anaesthetic spent, on average, an estimated 0.83 fewer days in hospital after THR and 0.87 fewer days in hospital after TKR. They also had took fewer opioids, walked earlier, and vomited less.
Not many studies reported long-term outcomes.
Our first conclusion is that local anaesthesia is effective in reducing short-term pain and hospital stay in patients having THR and TKR.
Second, studies should assess whether local anaesthesia can prevent long-term pain.
Finally, enhanced pain control with additional medicine through a catheter should be weighed against a possible infection risk.
