Does prescribing dopamine in the early stages of parkinson’s disease help patients?

The natural progress of Parkinson's disease (a brain-related disorder affecting movement) is largely unknown because patients are usually examined during treatment.
As Parkinson's disease progresses, the effect of the long-lasting response to levodopa (common Parkinsons's medication) remains unknown since it is measured indirectly in treated patients.
We tried to describe the natural course of movement symptoms by measuring the OFF state when symptoms occur in patients never given treatment (drug-naïve) for Parkinson's disease. For 2 years, we also explored how daily levodopa affects the progression of movement symptoms in the OFF state after treatment wears off.
In this lengthy, observational study in sub-Saharan Africa, 30 patients with Parkinson's disease (age at onset 58 ± 14 years, disease duration 7 ± 4 years) began levodopa therapy and were later measured with a specific disease scale for Parkinson's.
Data were collected at start, 1-year, and 2-year follow-up.
First-time levodopa intake improved movement symptoms.
After 1 year, severity of symptoms of Parkinson's disease was lower after overnight withdrawal of levodopa than without it at all.
The lowered severity by levodopa was not altered by disease length.
After 2 years, movement signs after overnight withdrawal of medication was still 30% milder than movement signs with no treatment ever.
The no-symptom state after first-time levodopa was similar and related to the overnight typical-symptom state after 1 year.
Compared to the natural progression, levodopa reduces symptom severity via a 31% annual decline with some leeway due to disease duration.
We calculated that the response to levodopa involved a possible 60-65% benefit of total motor activity, regardless of disease duration.
While levodopa relates to movement fluctuations, the typical-symptom state after overnight levodopa withdrawal was less severe than without medication at all, regardless of disease duration.
A yearly decline in symptom severity during the typical-symptom state also exists.
We need more research to explain the mechanisms for the response to levodopa in Parkinson's disease.
Understanding how Parkinson's disease progresses and the response to levodopa may help create better treatments and better assess clinical trials for Parkinson's disease.
