Does prescribing dopamine in the early stages of parkinson’s disease help patients?

No clinical trials with patients have been developed to compare medical treatments after surgery in Parkinson's disease (a brain disorder that affects movement and coordination).
The objective of this study is to compare the performance and safety of levodopa (a drug that enters the brain and helps replace missing dopamine, a chemical that carries signals between brain cells) versus dopamine agonist (a drug that imitates the actions of dopamine in the body) single therapy after deep brain stimulation (surgery that implants devices to stimulate certain areas of the brain) in patients with Parkinson's disease.
In this study, 35 patients who are planning to undergo surgery are randomly assigned to receive either levodopa or dopamine agonist after surgery.
All patients are evaluated in short (3 months), mid (6 months), and long-term (2.5 years) follow-up appointments after the surgery.
The key outcome (result) researchers planned to evaluate is the change in the Non-Motor Symptoms Scale, a scale to count and measure severity of non-motor (unrelated to movement) symptoms such as pain and tiredness, 3 months after surgery.
A second outcome is the percent of patients staying on only one drug, change in motor (movement) symptoms, and specific non-motor symptoms.
The analysis mainly focuses on the patients who were enrolled and randomly assigned to treatment.
Being randomly assigned into treatments did not significantly affect the key outcome from the Non-Motor Symptoms Scale between the two treatment groups.
In the 3-month and 6-month follow-up appointments, single therapy (only one drug) is safe and practical in more than half of patients, but it was more often possible for patients on levodopa.
The ability to maintain dopamine agonist as the only treatment drug is related to the best contact location.
In the 2.5 year follow-up, levodopa single therapy is feasible only in a small number of patients, whereas dopamine agonist single therapy is not tolerated (unable to handle side effects) due to worsening of motor conditions or occurrence of impulse control disorders (disorders in which temptations or thoughts cannot be resisted).
In conclusion, this study provides evidence for simplifying drug treatment after brain surgery for Parkinson's disease.
The reduction in dopamine agonists should be attempted while monitoring for development of non-motor symptoms, such as lack of motivation and sleep disturbances.
