Does prescribing dopamine in the early stages of parkinson’s disease help patients?

The natural development of Parkinson's disease (a brain disorder that affects movement and coordination) is largely unknown because patients are usually evaluated while on treatment.
As Parkinson's disease progresses, the true impact of the long-term response to levodopa (a drug that enters the brain and helps replace missing dopamine, a chemical that carries signals between brain cells) remains unknown because it can only be estimated indirectly in treated patients.
Researchers aimed to describe the natural progression of motor (movement) symptoms such as tremors, rigidity, and slowness of movement by evaluating the natural OFF state (when symptoms return) in patients with Parkinson's disease who have never taken drugs to treat the disease. Researchers also aimed to investigate the effects of daily levodopa on the progression of motor disability (partial or total loss of movement in part of the body) in the OFF medication state over a 2-year period.
In this study in sub-Saharan Africa, 30 Parkinson's disease patients started levodopa and are assessed using the Unified Parkinson's disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), a rating tool used to measure the severity and progression of Parkinson's disease in patients.
Data are collected at the start of the study and at 1-year and 2-year follow-up appointments.
Taking levodopa for the first time has a significant improvement in motor symptoms.
At 1-year follow-up, OFF state (when symptoms return) UPDRS-III score after overnight withdrawal of levodopa was considerably lower than natural OFF.
This effect does not change based on how long the person has the disease.
At the 2-year follow-up, motor signs after overnight OFF are still milder than natural OFF.
The ON state (patient feels energetic and can move) UPDRS-III at the first-ever levodopa challenge is similar to the overnight OFF score at 1-year follow-up, and the two conditions are connected.
Compared to the natural progression of motor disability, levodopa treatment resulted in a lower annual decline in UPDRS-III scores in the OFF state with a lower number than expected, which is explained by disease duration.
Using data taken from before treatment started, researchers made predictions of the natural OFF at 1-year and 2-year follow-up visits and estimated that the magnitude of how long patients have a response to levodopa ranged between 60% and 65% of benefit on motor ability provided by levodopa, independently of how long patients had the disease.
Although levodopa is linked to changes in motor ability, overnight OFF disability (when symptoms return) during levodopa is less severe than the natural course of the disease, independently of how long patients had the disease.
The same applies to the yearly decline in UPDRS-III scores in the OFF state.
Further research is needed to clarify the processes underlying the long-duration response to levodopa in Parkinson's disease.
Understanding the natural course of Parkinson's disease and how long motor improvements last while on levodopa may help to develop treatment strategies, increasing its impact to improve patient quality of life and to better understand the outcome of clinical studies on therapies that still rely on the overnight OFF to define Parkinson's disease progression.
