Does prescribing dopamine in the early stages of parkinson’s disease help patients?

Parkinson's disease has both motor (movement) and non-motor (unrelated to movement such as pain) symptoms that impact quality of life (patient's ability to enjoy normal, everyday activities including physical, social, and emotional aspects of life).
Levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) is a gel delivered to patients through a soft tube in the stomach to provide medication. It reduces movement complications and improves some non-motor symptoms in advanced Parkinson's disease.
Change in patients' health-related quality of life (how health impacts a person's quality of life) is a common primary outcome in Parkinson's disease studies and has become an important factor in judging overall effect of LCIG.
However, health-related quality of life is considered to be only one part of quality of life.
The primary aim of this study is to observe the effects of LCIG on individual quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease and caregivers (people who provide care to a person with short or long-term limitations due to disease or injury).
The second aim is to investigate its effects on patients' motor and non-motor symptoms as well as effects on caregiver burden.
Researchers interviewed patients on individual quality of life and also gave patients questions to answer on their own on personal wellbeing in different areas, such as relationships, life achievements, and safety. Twelve patients with advanced Parkinson's disease and their caregivers were followed for 6 months after starting levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel treatment.
At the final follow-up appointment, improvements in individual quality of life for patients and caregivers were seen together with improvements in motor and non-motor symptoms.
There were no significant improvements of health-related quality of life.
In conclusion, these results suggest that levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel improves individual quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease in addition to the improvement of motor and non-motor symptoms.
Additionally, this study signals that levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel may also help with improvement of individual quality of life in caregivers.
