What causes pitted edema in legs?

In lymphedema, an imbalance of a fluid called lymph causes a build up of protein-rich fluid, usually in the arms and legs.
Diagnosis is usually made based on patient medical history and a physical examination of the affected body part.
The diagnosis may be confirmed by imaging, such as x-rays or another scan.
Primary lymphedema, also called hereditary lymphedema, is inherited (passed down from parent to child) through genes.
Congestive heart failure (inefficient heart pumping) and infections from soil particles make it easier for patients to develop the secondary form of lymphedema, elephantiasis nostras verrucosa (ENV). ENV is a rare chronic condition caused by ongoing infections with bacteria and causes a part of the body, usually the lower part of the body, to be extremely enlarged.
Researchers describe the case of a 65-year-old man with lymphedema complicated by congestive heart failure.
The patient was experiencing worsening left leg swelling and had a prior history of leg swelling at puberty (when a child's body changes to become an adult) due to disease.
The condition was inherited, as his father, elder brother, and nephew were diagnosed with the same disease.
The left leg showed non-pitting edema (there was no indentation when the area of swelling is pressed) with woody skin due to scaring that was also thick and leathery.
The right leg had mild pitting edema.
There were numerous folds and cobblestone-like lumps, raised red patches of the skin, and a painless ulcer (sore) on the left leg.
Lab tests showed high levels of a hormone made by the heart called B-type natriuretic peptide.
He was treated with compression stockings and bandaging and given decongestive treatment in the limb which includes several techniques such as draining fluid.
After 1 week of therapy, his swelling had somewhat improved.
In conclusion, various conditions can cause elephantiasis nostras verrucosa (ENV), and it can be an additional condition on any form of hereditary lymphedema.
The most effective strategy for this condition seems to be a detailed workup of the underlying cause of the ENV and early treatment and management.
