What causes pitted edema in legs?

Edema is a build up of fluid in the body's tissues and does not drain properly, producing noticeable clinical signs and symptoms.
The rapid development of pitting edema, which is when pressing into the swollen area leaves a pit or indentation, associated with diseases that affects other parts of the body requires timely diagnosis and management.
The ongoing build up of edema in one or both lower legs often suggests veins in the lower limbs are not allowing enough blood to flow to the heart, especially in the presence of gravity-related swelling and build up of iron deposits under the skin that has a shade of brown pigment.
Skin care is crucial in preventing skin breakdown and venous ulcers, open sores on the skin from abnormal vein function.
Inflamed skin in the lower legs called eczematous (stasis) dermatitis is a kind of eczema (skin swelling) caused by poor circulation and can be helped with moisturizers and topical steroid creams.
Patients who have had a condition where a blood clot forms in the vein called deep venous thrombosis should wear compression stockings.
If a doctor believes a diagnosis for deep venous thrombosis is possible even after negative (no detection) results are noted on tests, further investigation may include imaging scans to rule out pelvic or thigh proximal venous thrombosis or compression.
Occasional airflow blockage during sleep called obstructive sleep apnea may cause edema in both legs even in the absence of high blood pressure.
Discolored, non-pitting (non-indentable) skin with edema is often a sign of lymphedema, fluid build-up in soft tissues when the lymph system is damaged or blocked, which can present in one or both lower limbs.
Possible other causes of lymphedema include tumor, trauma, previous pelvic surgery, inguinal lymphadenectomy (lymph node dissection), and previous radiation therapy.
Use of compression devices that are inflatable sleeves worn on the legs or compression stockings may be helpful in these cases.
