How long to recover immune system from prednisone treatment?

The growth of knowledge in the activity of prednisolone/prednisone (a steroid hormone with immunosuppressant effects) has been slow for many reasons.
First, convenient and specific methods to measure these steroids only became available with the creation of advanced lab techniques.
Secondly, prednisolone is connected to certain liver proteins. Since the unconnected amounts of prednisolone are important, it was necessary to measure the unconnected amount in each blood sample.
Thirdly, due to the short span of prednisolone, no balance is achieved. Thus, specific measurements needed to always be measured.
Fourthly, prednisolone and prednisone are interchangeable and prednisolone is given into the blood in an inactive form, attributes which created issues about correct interpretation of the lab results.
Finally, the full-body removal of total and unconnected prednisolone increase with increasing amounts of prednisolone.
Therefore, to compare lab results between different patients, measured doses had to be given.
The tests performed have shown that (1) the dose-dependent drug reactions partly explain observations that an every-other-day schedule with prednisone leads to less biological effects. (2) The change of prednisone into prednisolone is not limiting, even in patients with very damaged liver function. (3) Subnormal protein levels do not cause increased amounts of unbound prednisolone in living beings. (4) Patients with liver failure, kidney failure or a kideny transplant, subjects older than 65 years, women on estrogen-containing, pregnancy-preventing, oral steroids or subjects taking ketoconazole (an antifungal medication) have increased amounts of unbound prednisolone. However, patients with overactive thyroids, some patients with Crohn's disease (an inflammatory bowel disease), subjects taking specific liver medication, or patients on a specific prednisolone given into the blood (instead of another form of prednisolone) or on some brands of intenstinally-related prednisolone tablets have decreased amounts of prednisolone.
The importance of these changed drug reactions is supported partly by changed clinical effects and changed effects on cellular immunofunctions.
