How long to recover immune system from prednisone treatment?

Corticosteroids (an anti-inflammatory drug or supplement to help relieve pain and swelling, also known as steroids) have been used for decades to relieve inflammation, yet there is little data on their effects in humans.
Researchers examine the changes in cells and molecules of the immune system, also known as the immunome, in healthy humans after receiving systemic (affecting the entire body, rather than a single organ or body part) corticosteroids.
Researchers use multiple ways to examine the immunome in 20 volunteers at baseline (the start of the study), and again after intravenous (medication delivered through the vein) hydrocortisone (steroid medication) given at moderate and low doses.
A thorough review of cell characteristics of lymphocytes subsets (parts of a type of white blood cell that is part of the immune system) saw a decline in B cell subsets that work with substances found in body fluids and in T-cell subsets that focus on specific foreign substances after receiving hydrocortisone.
However, B and T cells rebounded or increased above baseline 24 hours after receiving hydrocortisone, while natural killer cell numbers (white blood cells that kill cells infected with a virus) remained stable.
Additional analysis found several results: less responsive signaling from NF-κB (proteins involved in different cell functions including immunity responses), apoptosis (normal cell death), and cell death signaling that comes before changes in lymphocytes amount, with activation of signaling in natural killer cells and glucocorticoid receptors (receptors that regulates genes controlling development, metabolism, and immune response).
This study is the first to methodically describe the effects of corticosteroids on the human immunome and showed that hydrocortisone has different effects on B and T  lymphocytes and natural killer cells in humans.
A different study reports that at certain doses, hydrocortisone can cause short-term low level in blood lymphocytes several hours after receiving the drug and return to baseline levels (at the start of the study) after 24 hours.
Data from the present study have similar results.
Different effects are found in the two steroid doses on lymphocytes returning to normal at 24 hours, with total T cells, CD4+ T cells, and B cells increasing above baseline after the high dose and total natural killer cells showing no increase above baseline at 24 hours.
Hydrocortisone brings about a rapid decline in monocytes (an immune cell that attacks and breaks down germs and bacteria) and mRNA (a strand of genetic code that provides instructions for building a protein) related to natural immune signaling as early as one hour after receiving the hydrocortisone.
These effects come before neutrophil demargination, which increases white blood cells, and a reduction in lymphocytes.
