How long to recover immune system from prednisone treatment?

Six healthy male volunteers were given 5, 20, and 50 mg of oral prednisone (steroid medication given by mouth) and 5, 20, and 400 mg doses of intravenous, or IV,  prednisolone (steroid medication delivered through the vein).
Plasma (the liquid portion of blood) and urine concentrations of prednisone and prednisolone are determined by HPLC or high performance liquid chromatographic (a technique that separates, identifies, and counts different parts in a mixture that makes it easy to analyze). How prednisolone attaches to proteins in plasma are also measured.
The pharmacokinetics (how the body handles a drug) of both oral prednisone and IV prednisolone are dose-dependent (in which the effects of a drug change when the dose of the drug is changed).

There are major changes in prednisone half-life (how long it takes for a drug concentration to be reduced to exactly half its initial amount in the blood), but increases in the half-life of its chemical changes by the body are dose-dependent.
How the body clears IV prednisolone from plasma is dose-dependent.
The steady-state volume (when how much the body is given of prednisolone is equal to how much of the drug the body eliminates) also increased, but little change in the average time and half-life is found.
The binding of prednisolone to plasma proteins was primarily based on the concentration or amount of the drug.
The pharmacokinetic measures of prednisolone not attached to proteins or transcortin-free (free of a protein from the liver) are mostly constant with the dose provided.
How prednisone and prednisolone can be exchanged for one another or converted to the other varies with time and dose, although the amount of prednisolone is greater than the amount of prednisone.

The observed renal (kidney-related) elimination or removal of both steroid drugs are also nonlinear (increases in drug exposure are not directly related to increases in given doses) and unrelated to protein attachment.
These studies suggest that how the body handles prednisone and prednisolone are dose-dependent and that attaching to proteins does not fully explain their apparent nonlinear distribution and how it is absorbed and excreted in the body.
