How long to recover immune system from prednisone treatment?

The aim of this study is to estimate the effect of corticosteroids (anti-inflammatory drugs that help relieve pain and swelling, also known as steroids) on blood level balance of Th1-related (cells that activate cellular immune responses) and Th2-related (cells that activate hormonal immune responses) cytokines (chemical messengers that coordinate the immune response) in patients with Graves' ophthalmopathy (swelling of the tissue in the area around the eyes).
Further, researchers tested the theory of an up-regulation of the Th2 immune response (where Th2 cells increase their responses to a signal from outside the cell to carry out specific functions) during successful treatment with corticosteroids.
Chemical messengers in the blood called cytokines are detected in 3 groups of study participants: 20 patients with Graves' disease without ophthalmology, 16 patients with clinical symptoms of Graves' ophthalmology, and 16 healthy volunteers.
Corticosteroid therapy consisted of intravenous (IV) infusions (medication delivered through the vein) of methylprednisolone (a steroid drug) and followed by treatment with oral or by-mouth prednisone (a steroid drug) in a gradually decreasing schedule.
Blood samples are collected before and after methylprednisolone, 14 days of treatment with prednisone (a type of steroid drug that can help lower certain immune-related symptoms, including inflammation and swelling), and at the end of the corticosteroid therapy.


The findings show a shift in the response of Th2 cytokines in Graves' disease.
In patients with Graves' ophthalmology, there is a significantly increased blood concentration of Interleukin 10 or IL-10, an anti-inflammatory cytokine which helps minimize damage to the body caused by the immune's response.
In patients that received corticosteroids and had a response from the drug, the balance of certain blood cytokines that were measured had increased and remained increased until the end of the study.
In those patients who did not respond to the corticosteroids, the balance of the specific blood cytokines studied had increased after receiving methylprednisolone but declined a great deal as the therapy continued with prednisone.
In summary, results show that effective corticosteroid therapy may be related to its influence on Th2/Th1 cytokine profile balance.
The upregulation or increase of blood IL-4 and IL-10 during successful treatment with corticosteroids suggests the possibility of using these cytokines to help predict the beneficial effect of corticosteroids in Graves' ophthalmopathy.
