How long to recover immune system from prednisone treatment?

Steroid hormones have long been used to control inflammation, yet there is a shortage of data on their effects in humans.
We examined the changes in cellular and molecular immune system measurements, or "immunome" in healthy humans after full-body steroid hormone treatment.
We used multi-measurement techniques to find immune system measurements in 20 volunteers at baseline and after hydrocortisone (HC) (steroid hormone) treatment via blood vessel injection at moderate (250 mg) and low (50 mg) doses. We did this to understand how steroid hormones bring about their effects.
We examine physical traits of 120 immune cell subsets by a specific molecular technique, and saw a decline in blood-specific, immune-cell subsets, which reached their minimum 4-8 hours after HC treatment.
However, B and T immune cells increased above baseline 24 hours after HC treatment, while natural killer immune cell numbers did not change.
A specific lab technique showed reduced protein signaling and cell death before immune-cell group sizes changed, with activation of natural killer immune cells and energy-monitoring, steroid hormone receptor molecules.
Our study is the first to explore the effects of steroid hormones on human immune system measurements. We show that HC has different effects on human B and T immune cells and natural killer immune cells.
Facui et al. showed that 400 mg and 100 mg doses of HC cause a temporary minimum in outer blood immune cells at 4-6 hours and recovery to baseline after 24 hours.
Our data agree with these results.
We also show different effects of the two steroid doses on immune cell recovery at 24 hours, with total T immune cells, specific sub-type T immune cells, and B immune cells increasing after the 250 mg dose. Also, total natural killer immune cells show no increases at 24 hours.
HC leads to a rapid decline in white blood cells and pre-protein molecules related to immune signaling as early as one hour after treatment.
These effects preexist migration and reduction of specific immune cell subtypes.
