How long to recover immune system from prednisone treatment?

The growth of knowledge in the field of pharmacokinetics (how the body handles a drug) of prednisolone/prednisone (two types of steroid drugs) has been slow for several reasons.
First, the most convenient and specific way to measure these steroid drugs only became possible with the development of high performance liquid chromatographic methods, a technique that separates, identifies, and counts different parts in a mixture that makes it easy to analyze.
Secondly, it is necessary to understand the free fraction, or portion of the drug that has an effect on the body, of prednisolone in each plasma (the liquid portion of blood) sample.
Third, due to the short half-life (how long it takes for a drug concentration to be reduced to exactly half its initial amount in the blood) of prednisolone, there is no steady state (when how much the body is given of prednisolone is equal to how much of the drug the body eliminates). Therefore, the area under the concentration-time curve (a measure of total exposure to the drug in the body's systems) is needed.
Fourth, prednisolone and prednisone can be exchanged for one another or converted to the other, and prednisolone is given intravenously or via injection. These features create disagreement about the correct way to understand how the body is able to handle these drugs.
Finally, the total amount of prednisolone that is cleared from the body and the total amount of prednisolone that has an effect on the body increase with more concentration of prednisolone.
Therefore, in order to compare pharmacokinetic results (how the body responds to or handles a drug) between different people, the same dose has to be given to patients.
The investigations done so far reveal that: 1) using the amount of dose to understand the body's effect explains why an alternate- or every-other-day treatment with prednisone leads to fewer effects in the body; 2) it is not a limiting factor that prednisone can convert to prednisolone; 3) hypoproteinaemia (lower than normal levels of protein in the body) does not cause an increase of the amount of drug in the body that can have an effect; 4) patients with liver failure, kidney failure, or kidney transplant, as well as people with other conditions, have an increased amount of the prednisolone drugs - while patients with other conditions such as Crohn's disease have decreased amounts of prednisolone.
The biological importance of the changes in how the body handles these steroids is supported, in part, by changes at the clinical and immune cell level.
