How long to recover immune system from prednisone treatment?

The process and reactions of the immune system from taking alternate- or every-other-day prednisone (a type of steroid drug that works by lowering the activity of the immune system) are investigated in a group of patients with different inflammatory diseases (diseases in which the immune system attacks the body's own tissues).
Total circulating lymphocyte (the total number of white blood cells in body fluids) and number of monocytes (an immune cell that attacks and breaks down germs and bacteria that enter the body), as well as lymphocyte subpopulations (parts of lymphocytes or white blood cells), were studied.
At 8 a.m. of the day of receiving prednisone, just before the drug was given to patients, blood tests that include lymphocyte and monocyte counts and proportions of lymphocyte subpopulations were found to be normal.
Four hours after receiving the prednisone, there is major lymphocytopenia (a condition where there is a lower-than-normal number of lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell, in the blood), monocytopenia (a reduction of monocytes, a type of immune cell, in the blood), reduction of T-cells (a type of immune cell that help protect the body from infection), and the presence of different lymphocyte subpopulations.
Studies that focus on lymphocyte reactions showed that lymphocytopenia is due to short-term reduction of white blood cells circulating within and outside cells.
All these blood measures returned to normal by 8 a.m. the next day (off the prednisone) and stayed normal throughout the day.
The very short-term lymphocytopenia and monocytopenia after prednisone, with normal cell numbers and counts for the rest of the 2-day cycle, are connected with eliminating disease activity, yet did not affect cutaneous delayed hypersensitivity (showing a reaction in the skin after several days) and did not increase the chance of complications with infection.
The short-term monocytopenia and lymphocytopenia connected with this drug is best explained as the body redistributing lymphocytes (white blood cells that are part of the immune system) to other parts of the body, particularly the bone marrow.
