What are prevention suggestions and strategies pertaining to postpartum depression?

Objective: Postpartum mood disorders represent a serious problem affecting 10-20% of women and support groups offer a promising intervention modality.
The current study examined participant satisfaction with and effectiveness of a peer-facilitated postpartum support group.
Intervention: The program consists of a free, peer-support group, developed to increase social support and destigmatise postpartum mood symptoms.
The weekly group is co-facilitated by former group attendees and maternal health professionals.
Setting: The peer-support program is offered in an urban city in the southeastern United States.
Design: To address study aims, a community-based participatory research approach was implemented.
Participant satisfaction was assessed via mixed methods analyses.
Differences in depression scores at follow-up between program attendees and a community sample were examined via weighted linear regression analysis following propensity score analysis.
Finally, within-group change in depression scores for program attendees was examined using a repeated measures ANOVA.
Participants: Intake program data were provided by the sponsoring organisation (n = 73) and follow-up data were collected via an online survey from program attendees (n = 45).
A community sample was recruited to establish a comparison group (n = 152).
Measurements and findings: Participant satisfaction was high with overwhelmingly positive perceptions of the program.
Postparticipation depression scores were similar to those of the community sample at follow-up (p = .447).
Among attendees, pre-post analyses revealed reductions in depression symptoms with significant interactions for time × complications (p ≤ .001) and time × delivery method (p ≤ .017).
Key conclusions: Overall, findings indicate this peer-support program is not only acceptable to program attendees but also they provide a potential mechanism for improving mental health outcomes; however, further evaluation is needed.
Findings also emphasise the importance of integrating evaluation procedures into community-based mental health programming to support effectiveness.
Implications for practice: Peer-support groups are an acceptable form of intervention for women experiencing postpartum depression.
