What are prevention suggestions and strategies pertaining to postpartum depression?

Postpartum depression (depression after childbirth) is one of the most common mental disorders.
Its occurance is estimated to be between 10% and 15%.
Even though the origin of postpartum depression has many causes, it is known that genetics play an important role in the onset of this disorder.
This research reviews evidence supporting the role of genetics in postpartum depression (PPD).
This research will determine which genes and mutations are associated with PPD. The review will discuss how this association may occur.
Also, this research studies if these genes are related to (or the same as) genes linked to Major Depression (MD).
To seek out gaps in the current knowledge that require more research, a thorough review was done in the electronic databases PubMed, LILACS and SciELO. The search words "postpartum depression" and "genetics" were used.
Literature searches were done for articles in peer-reviewed journals up until April 2014. Peer-reviewed journals use experts in the same field to go over the studies before publishing the articles.
During the literature search, the search words "postpartum depression" and "genetics" were linked 56 times..
The rules for including the articles in this study were articles written in Portuguese, Spanish or English that were available to the institutional or the authors. This search resulted in 20 papers.
Genes and mutations related to Major Depression (MD) have been the most studied. These genes are involved in the metabolism of chemicals that effect emotions (such as serotonin, catecholamines, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and tryptophan. )Some of these genes and mutations have been related to PPD.
The results are not all in agreement. Some depend on epigenetics (which can change the way your genes work without changing the DNA itself). The results are in the early stages.
Further studies are required to determine the genes that are involved in PPD. More studies are needed to define the relationship between these genes and PPD.
