What are prevention suggestions and strategies pertaining to postpartum depression?

Both antidepressant medications and psychological therapy are common treatments for depression in women after childbirth (postpartum depression-PPD).
Antidepressant treatment may have a number of practical disadvantages. Women may prefer to avoid medication while breastfeeding.
More information about the benefits of these two ways of treating PPD  in the perinatal period (time around pregnancy and childbirth) is helpful.
In treating of depression, there is some evidence that combining both therapies (medications plus psychological treatment) may be more successful than either treatment alone.
However, in the treatment of postnatal depression, such evidence is limited.
Researchers did a study in 45 postpartum women with depression. The treatments were assigned randomly. They received either cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), sertraline (an antidepressant drug), or a combination of both.  
Psychological measurements were collected weekly for 12 weeks, with a follow-up at 24 weeks.
Symptoms of depression and anxiety were reduced to a significant degree following all three treatments.
CBT alone was found to be superior to both sertraline alone and combination therapy after 12 weeks.
The CBT therapy group appeared to show the most rapid initial gains after treatment began.
In this study, a special CBT program for postnatal depression was found to be superior as a single therapy when compared to sertraline, a commonly prescribed antidepressant.
This is in disagreement with other studies that found no difference noted in the outcomes between the drug and the psychological treatment for postnatal depression.
Unlike some previous work, this study had an independent analysis of CBT single therapy for postnatal depression as compared to both antidepressant and combination therapy.
Like previous studies in postpartum women, there was no advantage noticed by combining drug and psychological treatments in the short term.
