What are prevention suggestions and strategies pertaining to postpartum depression?

Postpartum (after giving birth) mood disorders represent a serious problem affecting 10-20% of women. Support groups offer a promising treatment.
This research studied women's satisfaction with and the success of a postpartum support group. This support group was guided by peers (others who had similar experiences). 
The program consists of a free, peer-support group, developed to increase social support and take away the shame of postpartum mood symptoms.
The weekly group is assisted by former group participants and maternal health professionals.
The peer-support program is offered in an urban city in the southeastern United States.
The research study was done with community participation.
The satisfaction of the participants was analyzed 
Differences in depression measured at follow-up between program participants and a sample of community members that did not take part in the program were analyzed.
Changes in depression measured for the participant group (program attendees) was also analyzed.
Facts (data) about the participants at the beginning of the program were provided by the organisation backing the support group.  The follow-up data was given by the participants through an online questionnaire.
A community sample of women who did not participate in the program was enrolled to compare with the participants.
Participant satisfaction was high with overwhelmingly positive perceptions of the program.
After participation in the program, depression scores were similar to those of the community sample at follow-up.
Analyses comparing data of participants both before and after the program showed decreases in depression symptoms. This decrease in depression was significantly associated with time, complications, and delivery method.
 The research found that this peer-support program is acceptable to program attendees and it provides a possible way to improve mental health outcomes. More research is needed.
The research also stress the importance of combining analysis procedures into community-based mental health programs in order to support successful outcomes.
Peer-support groups are an acceptable form of treatment for women experiencing postpartum depression.
