How to treat phda1?

A ketogenic diet is a low carb, high-fat diet that can help create fuel for the body when glucose levels are low. The aim of this study is to find the short- and long-term effects of a ketogenic diet on disease progression and disease-related outcomes (changes in health) in patients with pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency, a rare disease that impacts the nervous system. The effects of a ketogenic diet on the body's chemical process to turn food into energy and potential safety issues are also studied.
Child patients diagnosed with pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency in Sweden and treated with a ketogenic diet are evaluated in this study.
The study includes different tests on development and brain function, recording assessments in patient log books, and a series of questions for both researchers and parents to answer.
A review of all relevant research on this topic is also performed.
Nineteen patients were included in the study. For most of the patients, the disease developed during pregnancy.
Patients were treated with ketogenic diet for about 2.9 years, but this time varied.
All patients alive at the time of data registration were about 6 years old, but the age did vary.
The treatment has a positive effect mainly in the areas of epilepsy (a disorder that causes seizures), ataxia (loss of control of movement), sleep disturbance, speech/language development, social functioning (the ability to engage with others), and the number of hospitalizations.
It is also safe-except in one patient who had to stop because of acute pancreatitis, where the pancreas becomes swollen over a short period of time.

Not staying on the diet regularly is connected with returning ataxia (loss of control of movement) and slowing or stopping of the strengthening of bones and muscles and brain development.

Ketogenic diet is an effective and safe treatment for the majority of patients.
How effective treatment is was mostly determined by physical traits or characteristics of patients and by if the body reaches and maintains ketosis, a process where the body burns stored fat for energy instead of glucose.
