Stage 3 kidney disease. Is there a shot you can take that will keep you off dialysis?

A disease of the parathyroid (calcium-regulating) glands in the neck that is caused by another disease is called secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT), with symptoms that include weak bones, kidney stones, and tiredness. SHPT represents a complication or bad effect of chronic kidney disease (CKD).
The vitamin D system is altered early in CKD, and not enough vitamin D is an established trigger of SHPT.
Untreated SHPT may become tertiary hyperparathyroidism (when too much of the parathyroid hormone is produced even when the original problem is corrected) with harmful consequences in advanced chronic kidney disease. However, the best treatments for acting against SHPT from stage 3 chronic kidney disease are still debated.
Enthusiasm on prescription of vitamin D treatments in non-dialysis kidney patients is lessened by the risk of low bone turnover (when the bone tissue is reabsorbed and replaced by a new bone), and positive calcium-phosphate balance that makes sure systems in the body work well.
Nutritional vitamin D is now suggested as first-line therapy to treat secondary hyperparathyroidism with low vitamin D blood test scores.
However, no high-grade evidence supports the best choice between which vitamin D product to prescribe.
Other areas covered in this review are the data available on safety and effectiveness (success) of vitamin D, vitamin D prescriptions, and nutritional therapy in restoring vitamin D to normal levels (via diet) and acting against secondary hyperparathyroidism.
The expert opinion is that the best treatment for low vitamin D levels and secondary hyperparathyroidism remains unknown due to some missing key information.
Nutritional vitamin D and nutritional therapy appear to be the safest interventions (treatments), when considering the individual characteristics of each patient.
Prescriptions for vitamin D should be limited to only uncontrolled secondary hyperparathyroidism by first treatment recommended.
