Does prescribing dopamine in the early stages of parkinson’s disease help patients?

Researchers tested the idea that there are 2 distinct phenotypes (observable traits or characteristics) of Parkinson tremor based on differences among people in how the resting tremor (a tremor when the muscle is relaxed) responds to dopamine medication.
Researchers also investigated whether this pattern is specific to tremor by comparing differences in the dopamine response of the tremor to that of bradykinesia (slowness of movement).
In the study, we performed a levodopa (a drug that enters the brain and helps replace missing dopamine) challenge (when a drug is used to confirm a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease if the patient's symptoms improve while taking the medication) in 76 patients with Parkinson tremor.
Clinical scores using a tool that evaluates the severity of Parkinson's disease are collected in stages of "off" (when symptoms return) and "on" (when patient feels energetic and can move) during a standard dopamine challenge.
In both sessions, resting tremor intensity was measured using accelerometry (a device that records motion and non-motion) both during rest and while doing another mental task at the same time.
Bradykinesia is measured using a speeded keyboard test.
The distribution (the movement of a drug to and from the blood and different tissues of the body) of dopamine-responsiveness for resting tremor and bradykinesia is calculated.
In 41 patients, a dopamine challenge is repeated after about 6 months.
The dopamine response of resting tremor, but not bradykinesia, significantly departed from normal in the body.
An analysis of brain activity revealed 3 clusters: dopamine-responsive, intermediate, and dopamine-resistant tremor.
A repeated levodopa challenge after 6 months confirmed these clusters.
Patients with dopamine-responsive tremor have greater disease severity and tend to have a higher amount of dyskinesia (involuntary and uncontrollable movements).
In conclusion, Parkinson resting tremor can be divided into 3 partially overlapping characteristics based on dopamine response.
These tremor characteristics may be connected with different underlying functional changes that come with Parkinson's disease, requiring a different treatment approach.
