How to eliminate nocturnal atrial fibrillation?

Sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (SAHS) (a sleep disorder of recurring episodes of partial or complete upper airway collapse during sleep) is one of the causes of atrial fibrillation (AF) (a fluttery and irregular heartbeat that can lead to blood clots or stroke). The occurrence of AF is high in SAHS-diagnosed patients.
Nocturnal hypoxemia (a temporary drop in oxygen while sleeping) is associated with AF, pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure affecting the arteries in the lungs and heart), and nocturnal death (death in sleep caused by sudden cardiac death).
The frequency of AF recurring is high in people with untreated SAHS after cardioversion, a procedure used to return an irregular or very fast heartbeat to a normal rhythm.
This study summarizes the case of a patient with SAHS diagnosed by an apnea test (monitoring of breathing and oxygen) and who did not develop recurring (chronic) atrial fibrillation after receiving standard treatment and the bi-level positive airway pressure (BiPAP), a ventilator used to maintain a consistent breathing pattern (often used at night).
A 57-year old male patient who was on treatment for 1.5 months for AF was admitted to the hospital because of a high, irregular heart beat. The sinus rhythm (the pattern of your heartbeat based on the sinus node of your heart which sends out electrical pulses) was steady during the cardioversion procedure.
Heart and oxygen tests were performed in the hospital after the second cardioversion.
The patient was sent home with medical treatment and a nocturnal BiPAP.

No recurring atrial fibrillation developed in the patient, and his medical treatment was reduced within 6 months.
After gastric bypass surgery on the 12th month, nocturnal hypoxia and atrial fibrillation did not re-occur.
Because they did not recur, the BiPAP and medical treatments were ended.
In conclusion, SAHS can be diagnosed by performing an apnea test in the hospital.
SAHS should be investigated in patients developing recurring atrial fibrillation after a cardioversion procedure.
Recovery of nocturnal hypoxia may increase the success of standard atrial fibrillation treatment.
