How to eliminate nocturnal atrial fibrillation?

Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) (an irregular heart rate that returns to normal within 7 days on its own or with treatment) can be caused by mutations in genes.
Genetic linkage analysis to trace diseases in families using genes, whole-exome sequencing to find a genetic cause of a disease, and models to study biological processes of cells were used in this study.
Through these genetic studies, researchers show that one genetic trait or mutation that is passed down from parent to child causing nighttime paroxysmal atrial fibrillation is caused by a mutation in the KCND2 gene.
Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 are potassium channels that release potassium from cells and contribute to the heart-related, temporary, fast, outward potassium (K+) current, Ito.
Ito is the base of the early phase of repolarization (when the outward current of ions exceeds the inward current) in the cardiac action potental (where unique properties necessary for function of the electrical conduction system of the heart occur), and creates the initial potential of the plateau phase (the time that allows for longer muscle contraction and allows the heart to contract in a steady, uniform, and forceful manner).
In studies that modeled the cell's biology, the mutation increased the potassium channel's inactivation time (the time when the channel no longer allows potassium to be passed through it) and affected its regulation.
The mutant Kv4.2 showed an impaired response to protein kinase C (PKC), a protein that regulates cells growth and plays a major role in sending signals to the heart.


The gene mutation alters Kv4.2's transfer properties, impairs its regulation process, and exerts gain-of-function effect (changes the activity or function of a protein) in both Kv4.2 and Kv4.2-Kv4.3 potassium channels.
These effects possibly increase the repolarizing potassium current Ito, creating arrhythmogenic substrates (factors that can produce or lead to arrhythmia) for nocturnal atrial fibrillation (an irregular and often very rapid heart rhythm occuring at night that can lead to blood clots in the heart).
Kv4.2 expression has previously been shown to demonstrate circadian variation (the natural, internal process that regulates the sleep–wake cycle and repeats roughly every 24 hours), with peak expression at daytime, with possible relevance to the nighttime onset of symptoms of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (an irregular heart rate that returns to normal within 7 days on its own or with treatment) in patients.
Targeting Kv4.2 might be effective in the treatment of nocturnal paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
