How to eliminate nocturnal atrial fibrillation?

Dronedarone is a new drug that can treat atrial fibrillation (a fluttery and irregular heartbeat that can lead to blood clots or stroke) or AF and is found to help control the heart rhythm and heart rate in patients with paroxysmal (when the heart rate returns to normal within 7 days on its own or with treatment) or with persistent (greater than 7 days) atrial fibrillation.
A clinical trial called the Efficacy and safety of dRonedArone for The cOntrol of ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation (ERATO) reviewed how well dronedarone worked to control the ventricular rate (heart rate) in patients with permanent AF, when added to other treatments.
In this clinical trial of patients with permanent AF, 85 patients receive the dronedarone drug, and 85 receive a placebo (an inactive substance that looks like the treatment drug) for 6 months.
A key measure is the average change in ventricular rate between the start of the trial and day 14 of the trial.
Ventricular rate is also evaluated during submaximal exercise (any physical activity with increased intensity in which heart rate does not go above 85) and maximal exercise (physical activity increased to come close to fatigue).
Dronedarone significantly decreased the average 24-hour ventricular rate.
When compared to the placebo group, the average effect of dronedarone on day 14 was a reduction of 11.7 beats per minute.
Similar reductions continued throughout the 6-month trial.
There was a reduction in heart beats per minute during maximal exercise when compared to the placebo group.
The effects of dronedarone were an addition to the effects of other drugs that control heart rate.
Dronedarone was well tolerated with few side effects.
In addition to its previously demonstrated effects on heart rhythm and rate in short-term and long-term AF, dronedarone improves ventricular rate control in patients with permanent AF.
Dronedarone was well tolerated with no evidence of damage to organs or worsening of heart condition in this short-term study.
