To treat abnormal ketones result of pregnant woman what food should be eaten?

A low carbohydrate diet (a diet that limits carbohydrates often found in sugary foods, pasta, and bread) has the potential to improve glycemia (blood sugar level) but it may increase ketonemia (an unusually high amount of ketones, a substance that the body makes if cells don't get enough blood sugar) in women with gestational diabetes (a type of high blood sugar affecting pregnant women).
Researchers tested the theory that eating a modestly low amount of carbohydrates would not increase ketonemia.
The objective of this study is to compare the amount of ketones that are in the blood, the risk of ketonemia, and pregnancy outcomes, such as full-term or premature, in women with gestational diabetes who are randomly assigned to a lower carbohydrate (carb) diet or routine care.
In this study, 46 women are randomly assigned to a modestly lower carb diet or to routine care.
Ketones, the substance the body makes if cells don't get enough blood sugar, in the blood are measured by finger prick tests. Food diaries are collected at the beginning of the study and at the end.
The results show that there are no detectable differences in blood ketones between participants in the modestly lower carb diet group when compared with women in the routine care group, even though carbs and total energy intake are much lower in the modestly low carb diet group.
Only 20% of participants in the modestly low carb diet group met the target amount of consumption compared with 65% in the routine care group.
There are no differences in birth weight, rate of large-for-gestational-age infants (a newborn who weighs more than 90% of other newborns of the same gestational age at birth), percent of fat in the body, or fat-free mass (muscle mass) between the groups.
In conclusion, a change to reduce the amount of carbs consumed by women with gestational diabetes did not raise ketones to a significant level, possibly because the target of the amount of food was difficult to achieve in pregnancy.
Feeding studies with provided food may be needed to determine the benefits and risks of low-carbohydrate diets.
