To treat abnormal ketones result of pregnant woman what food should be eaten?

The objective of this study is to determine the effect of limiting carbohydrates (carbs) on perinatal (time before and after birth) outcomes in patients with diet-controlled gestational diabetes mellitus (diagnosed with diabetes for the first time during pregnancy).
Women with diet-controlled gestational diabetes mellitus are divided non-randomly into two groups based on the amount of carbs in their diet: those with low carbs in the diet (below 42%) and those with high carbs in the diet (exceeding 45%).
Patients keep food diaries and are followed with assessments of daily fasting (no food) and blood sugar levels after meals.
Patients also were tested daily for urinary ketones (chemicals in uring made from the liver that indicate the body is using fat for fuel instead of sugar).
Glycosylated hemoglobin (a blood test that measures the percent of a protein found in blood red cells), average fasting and after meals blood sugar numbers, number of macrosomia (a newborn who is much larger than average) and large for gestational age infants (newborns who weighs more than 90% of other newborns of the same gestational age at birth), cesarean deliveries (C-section) for cephalopelvic disproportion (when a baby's head is too large to fit through the mother's pelvis) and macrosomia, and need for insulin therapy (a hormone in the body that allows cells in the muscles, fat, and liver to absorb sugar that is in the blood) are compared between the groups.
The two groups are identical in terms of demographic characteristics such as age, race/ethnicity, geographic area, and income.
Major decreases in the after meal blood sugar numbers are seen among patients in the low-carb group.
Fewer patients in the low-carb group needed the additional insulin to control blood sugar.
The number of large for gestational age infants was much lower in the low-carb group.
Patients in the low-carb group also have lower rates of cesarean deliveries due to cephalopelvic disproportion (in which the baby's head is too large to fit through the mother's pelvis) and macrosomia (in which the newborn who is much larger than average).
In conclusion, limiting carbohydrates in patients with diet-controlled gestational diabetes mellitus results in improved blood sugar control, less need for insulin therapy, a decrease in the number of large for gestational age infants, and a decrease in cesarean deliveries for cephalopelvic disproportion and macrosomia.
