How do you assist an unconscious victim who is already vomiting?

Many things determine how fast the stomach empties and therefore how fast a drug is taken in by the body in a person who swallows a toxic substance.
Few studies have rated the effect of body position on how fast the stomach empties via a technique to more easily see stomach contents with x-rays. However, effects on how fast a drug is absorbed have not been studied before.
We thought that body position would have an effect on how fast a drug is absorbed in a person who swallows a toxic substance.

Participants were six male and six female healthy, adult volunteers not taking any drugs or medicine affecting stomach function.
We looked at five body positions often used before hospital and emergency room treatment: left side, right side, back, stomach, and sitting.
Participants did every position in random order with a 3-day break between trials.
To pretend that participants swallowed a toxic substance, participants did not eat prior to taking 80 mg of Tylenol/kg of body weight in the form of 160-mg children's tablets.
Each participant then stayed in the body position for that trial for two hours.
We measured Tylenol levels every 15 minutes. We calculated how much Tylenol participants absorbed over 2 hours for each trial.
Investigators did not know the results until after the trials were done.
All participants finished the study.
We calculated average amount of drug absorbed for each body position.
The average amount of drug absorbed was lowest for the left side, which was similar to the back position.
Absorption for the left side and back were less than for stomach, right side, and sitting positions.
We concluded that drug absorption was lowest for the left side position.
Although the difference between the left side and back positions did not differ significantly, both the left side and back positions were significantly lower than the three other positions tested.
Because the left side position is better for other reasons (e.g., material entering the airway or lungs by accident) than decreasing how much drug is absorbed, we suggest that people who swallow a toxic substance be put in the left side position before going to the hospital and emergency room.
