How does human body maintain hypokalemia shock homeostasis?

Two protein enzymes called STE20 (Sterile 20)/SPS-1 related proline/alanine-rich kinase (SPAK) and oxidative stress-response kinase-1 (OSR1) activate the kidney-related cotransporters (carrier proteins that carry two different ions or other species from one side of the cell to the other) Na(+) -K(+) -2Cl(-) cotransporter (NKCC2) and Na(+) -Cl(-) cotransporter (NCC).
Knockout mouse models (experiments with mice that lack a specific gene) suggest that OSR1 mainly activates NKCC2, while SPAK mainly activates NCC, and sometimes compensate for one another.
Researchers tested the idea that disrupting both enzymes causes severe polyuria (passing unusually large amounts of urine) and salt-wasting by producing SPAK/OSR1 double knockout (DKO) mice - mice without SPAK or OSR1.
DKO mice showed lower systolic blood pressure (the top number of blood pressure that indicates how much pressure the blood is exerting against artery walls when the heart beats) compared to SPAK knockout (SPAK-KO) mice, but showed no severe phenotype (observable traits or characteristics) even after salt restriction in food.
Phosphorylation (a process of adding a phosphate group, a group of atoms that have different roles and make up DNA and RNA, to a molecule to prepare it to change or do work) of NKCC2 at SPAK/OSR1-dependent sites was lower than in SPAK-KO mice (mice without SPAK), but still much greater than in wild-type or normal mice.
In the innermost part of the kidney called the medulla, there was significant phosphorylation of NKCC2 at SPAK/OSR1-dependent sites despite a complete absence of SPAK and OSR1, which suggests the existence of another activating kinase enzyme.
The distal convoluted tubule (a part within the kidney that connects to the collecting duct system that refines salt and water reabsorption) has been suggested to sense blood potassium by monitoring sodium delivery to the collecting duct.
A lot of phosphorylated Na(+) -Cl(-) cotransporter (pNCC) is dramatically lowered in SPAK-KO mice than in wild type mice, and the additional disruption of OSR1 further reduced pNCC.
SPAK-KO and kidney-specific OSR1 single knockout mice (mice without OSR1 only in the kidney) maintained potassium in the blood following restrictions of potassium in food, but DKO mice developed severe hypokalemia (low levels of potassium in the blood).
Unlike mice lacking SPAK or OSR1 alone, SPAK/OSR1 double knockout (DKO) mice showed an inability to phosphorylate NCC under these conditions.
These data suggest that STE20 (Sterile 20)/SPS-1 related proline/alanine-rich kinase (SPAK) and oxidative stress-response kinase-1 (OSR1) are essential components of the pathway that maintains potassium in the blood.
