How does human body maintain hypokalemia shock homeostasis?

Renal (kidney-related) secretion or release plays a key role in maintaining potassium homeostasis (processes used by the body to maintain a normal potassium concentration in the fluid outside the cells).
Renal release of potassium mainly takes place within the kidneys through as series of tubes and ducts. Potassium is absorbed through the potassium channel that is located at the base or sides of the cell called the basolateral and is released into a tube called the lumen through potassium channels.
Recent studies have suggested that potassium channels 4.1 (Kir4.1 or Kcnj10) located within the kidney at the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) (which connects to the duct system in the kidneys and helps with salt and water reabsorption) may play a role in regulating the release of potassium by targeting the NaCl cotransporter (NCC) (the carrier protein that helps reabsorb sodium and chloride ions from tube fluid into the cells).
This review summarizes recent progress on the role of the potassium channel Kir4.1 in the control of NCC and potassium secretion (release).
Recent findings show that Kir4.1 is activated in the basolateral membrane (the thin layer surrounding a cell located at the base or sides of the cell) of the distal convoluted tubule (DCT). Kir4.1 plays a major role in helping the basolateral pass potassium through the cell and in helping cell membranes have a negative charge.
Kir4.1 also activates proteins that send signals to other cells which in turn activate Kir4.1 activity in the DCT.
Kir4.1 depolarizes (changes the internal charge to make the cell less negative) the membrane of the distal convoluted tubule (DCT), slows down other proteins that regulate cell activity, and suppresses NaCl cotransporter activity.
Additionally, the decrease in function of Kir4.1 increases activity of the epithelial Na channel (the lining of the outer part of the kidney tubule) in the ducts and potassium release through urine.
Finally, mice with low Kir4.1 activity in the DCT are hypomagnesemia (have a low level of the magnesium mineral in the blood) and hypokalemia (have low levels of potassium).
In summary, recent progress in exploring the control and function of Kir4.1 in the distal convoluted tubule suggests that Kir4.1 has an important role in starting the regulation of releasing potassium in the kidneys by targeting NaCl cotransporter and may be a potassium sensor in the kidney.
