How does human body maintain hypokalemia shock homeostasis?

Potassium channels are proteins that allow rapid and careful flow of potassium ions (an atom that carries an electrical charge) across the cell boundary and generates electrical signals in cells. Two potassium channels located in cells of the kidneys called potassium channels Kir4.1 and Kir5.1 play a key role on controlling how potassium from foods affect how salt is reabsorbed.
The role of Kir5.1 in how it passes on potassium from foods in the kidneys and how it releases potassium is unknown.
Researchers studied Kir4.1 and Kir5.1 in different parts of the kidneys by using two different types of mice (called wild-type mice - or normal mice - and knockout mice - mice without a specific gene like the one encoding Kir5.1) fed with normal, high, or low potassium diets.

When compared with the wild-type mice, the knockout mice that were fed a normal potassium diet had higher transmission of potassium, had more negative charges in some cell boundaries or membranes, had higher activation of major salt reabsorption pathways, and had an increase in the release of sodium in the urine.
Neither a diet high nor low in potassium affected the potassium channel that is located at the base or sides of the cell or the negative charges in the cell membranes in the knockout mice.
Although high potassium reduced activation of major salt reabsorption pathways and low potassium increased activation of major salt reabsorption pathways in wild-type mice, these effects were not found in the knockout mice.
High potassium diets slowed or stopped release of sodium in the urine while low potassium diets increased the release of sodium in the urine in wild-type mice but not in knock-out mice.
When compared with wild-type mice, knockout mice who had normal potassium level diets had slightly lower plasma potassium (potassium in the blood). However, knockout mice were more hyperkalemic (having a higher than normal level of potassium in the bloodstream) with a long, high potassium diet and hypokalemic (having a lower than normal level of potassium in the blood) with a restricted potassium diet.
Kir5.1 is key for the effect of potassium from foods on how salt is reabsorbed and for maintaining a stable balance of potassium.
