What causes low alkaline phosphate levels?

Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is a genetic condition that blocks metabolic pathways. HPP features low serum (blood) alkaline phosphatase (ALP - a protein which indicates bone health) activity (hypophosphatasemia). This is caused by mutation(s) of the gene that encodes the tissue-nonspecific isoenzyme (form) of ALP (TNSALP). This mutation renders the gene unable to complete it function.
Variations in the type of mutations largely explains HPP's remarkably broad-ranging severity.
TNSALP is an enzyme expressed in the skeleton, liver, kidney, and developing teeth.
In HPP, TNSALP substrates (proteins altered by TNSALP) accumulate outside of cells.
One substrate is inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi), a potent inhibitor (blocker) of mineralization.
Superabundance of extracellular PPi explains the hard tissue complications of HPP. These complications include premature loss of deciduous teeth, rickets or bone softening, and joint swelling in some affected adults.
In infants with severe HPP, blocked entry of minerals into the skeleton can cause hypercalcemia (high calcium levels). Additionally, insufficient breakdown of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP), the major circulating form of vitamin B6, can cause seizures.
Elevated circulating PLP is a sensitive and specific biological marker, or a measurable compound in the body that can indicate health status, for HPP.
Also, the TNSALP substrate phosphoethanolamine (PEA) is usually elevated in serum and urine in HPP. However, this biological marker is less reliable for diagnosis.
Disease-specific changes occur in pediatric (child) HPP when the skeletal disease is severe.
TNSALP mutation analysis is needed to determine recurrence (reappearance) for HPP in future pregnancies and for prenatal (at or before birth) diagnosis.
HPP was the last bone condition to have a medical treatment.
Now, significant successes using asfotase alfa, a prescription drug, are published concerning severely affected newborns, infants, and children.
Asfotase alfa was approved by regulatory agencies around the world in 2015 typically for pediatric-onset HPP.
