What causes low alkaline phosphate levels?

Hypophosphatasia is genetic condition that blocks metabolic pathways. It is characterized by hypophosphatasemia or low serum (blood) levels of a protein, alkaline phosphatase, that indicates bone health.
This biomarker, or a measurable compound to determine health status, reflects mutations within the gene that encodes the tissue-nonspecific isoenzyme (form) of alkaline phosphatase (TNSALP).
TNSALP is an enzyme that is expressed in the skeleton, liver, kidney and developing teeth.
In hypophosphatasia, accumulation of TNSALP natural substrates (substances altered by TNSALP) occurs. These substrates include inorganic pyrophosphate, an inhibitor (blocker) of mineralization. Accumulation of inorganic pyrophosphate explains the tooth loss, rickets or bone softening, and joint swelling.
Severely affected infants sometimes also have hypercalcemia (high calcium levels) and hyperphosphatasemia (high alkaline phosphatase levels). This is due to the blocked entry of minerals into the skeleton and pyridoxine-dependent seizures. The seizures are cause by insufficient breakdown of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, the major circulating form of vitamin B6.
The different types of possible mutations of ALPL (which encodes for alkaline phosphatase) largely accounts for the wide range of severity of hypophosphatasia (a rare, genetic bone disorder).
High serum concentrations of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate represent an accurate and specific biomarker for hypophosphatasia.
Also, levels of phosphoethanolamine (which helps construct cell boundaries) are usually elevated in serum and urine. However, these biomarkers are less reliable for diagnosis.
TNSALP mutation detection is important to determine is recurrence may occur and prenatal diagnosis.
Diagnosing pediatric (child) hypophosphatasia is aided by observing disease-specific changes when the skeletal disease is severe.
Hypophosphatasia was the last bone disease to receive a medical treatment.
Now, significant successes for severely affected child patients are recognized using asfotase alfa, a prescription drug.
