What causes low alkaline phosphate levels?

Low levels of blood phosphate, a high-energy molecule, or hypophosphatasia (HPP) is a from-birth disease caused by disease-causing variations in ALPL (the gene for alkaline phosphatase or a protein that influences phosphate levels).
Low levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) are a marker of HPP.
Little is known about the amount of HPP in Scandinavia. The diverse symptoms make identification challenging.
The study aimed to investigate the amount of ALPL variants and physical and biochemical markers among adults with hormonal diagnoses and persistant low ALP levels.
We reviewed a database of ALP measurements from 26,121 individuals to identify adults over 18 years with persistently low levels of ALP.
ALPL gene testing, biological tests, and assessment of symptoms by a questionnaire among included patients were performed.
Among 24 patients, thirteen (54.2%) had a disease-causing variant in ALPL and mild symptoms of HPP, of which musculoskeletal pain was the most frequent.
A specific gene mutation that altered a protein segment was found in six subjects. A similar gene mutation and deletion of a gene segment was detected by genetic tests.
Tests showed no differences in ALP, bone-specific ALP, and pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) or active vitamin B6 between patients with an ALPL mutation and no genetic diseases.
Patients with an ALPL mutation had much higher PLP levels than healthy patients.
We saw normal ALP activity in some patients with mild HPP. We also saw slightly increased PLP in two subjects with no gene diseases and four healthy patients.
Among 51 with persistent low ALP levels, fifteen (29.4%) had anti-bone-breakdown treatment.
Two patients with unrecognized HPP were treated with anti-bone-breakdown drugs and did not show side effects from treatment.
Disease-causing mutations in ALPL are common in patients with hormonal diagnoses and low ALP.
Regarding detection, gene testing is needed to identify mild HPP due to diverse biochemical findings.
Anti-bone-breakdown treatment is frequent reason for low ALP levels and treatment effects in adults with an ALPL mutation and bone breakdown remain unclear and need further studies.
