What bp meds should not be taken if person has mthfr genetic variant?

Use of riboflavin (a B vitamin) was recently shown to have genotype-specific effects on lowering blood pressure (BP). This means a person's response was different depending on their genetic makeup. This process was shown within patients of premature (or early) cardiovascular (or heart-related) disease with a TT genotype of a specific genetic variation or gene change. This genetic variation, known as 677C, is found within the gene that encodes the enzyme methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR). MTHFR is involved in the processing of amino acids, the building blocks of proteins.
It is unknown if this effect is confined to patients with high-risk cardiovascular disease.
The goal of this study was to investigate the responsiveness of BP in hypertensive (high blood pressure) patients taking riboflavin. Specifically, these patients would have the TT genotype but no obvious cardiovascular disease.
Of 1427 hypertensive patients, the authors identified 157 with the MTHFR 677TT genotype. Ninety-one agreed to participate in the study.
Participants were ordered by systolic BP (when the heart contracts and the higher blood pressure number) and randomized to receive a placebo (harmless pill) or riboflavin (1.6 mg/d) for 16 weeks.
Before treatment, despite being prescribed multiple classes of antihypertensive drugs, the majority of participants with this genotype had failed to reach the goal BP.
A significant improvement in the level of bodily riboflavin was observed in response to intervention or treatment.
A significant treatment effect in systolic BP was observed. However, no significant treatment was found in diastolic (when the heart relaxes and the lower blood pressure number) BP.
The study concluded riboflavin supplementation within hypertensive individuals with the MTHFR 677TT genotype decreases BP more efficiently than current antihypertensive drugs only. Furthermore, this study indicates the potential for a personalized, or individualized, approach to the way high blood pressure is managed in this genetically at-risk group.
