At what strength is prozac usually begun for a patient changing from another antidepressant?

Depression is the single largest contributor to non-fatal health loss worldwide.
New antidepressants, also called second-generation antidepressants, (medications used to treat depression and other disorders and can improve mood, sleep quality, and concentration) are the first-line option for managing depression using medication.
Their use is important to reduce the burden of depression; however, there is ongoing debate about their dose dependency (when the effects of a drug change when the dose of the drug is changed) and the best target dose (the dose that achieves a target effect).
We have aimed to summarize the best available evidence to inform this clinical question.
Researchers found 28,554 records by searching published and unpublished records.
Among those records, 561 published and 121 unpublished records that have complete text are reviewed, and 77 are included in the final analysis.
For SSRIs or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (a type of antidepressant that can increase the amount of serotonin, a mood stabilizer), the dose-efficacy curve (relationship between an effect of a drug and the amount of drug given) showed a gradual increase up to doses between 20mg and 40mg fluoxetine (a type of SSRI also called prozac), and a flat to decreasing trend through the higher doses up to 80 mg fluoxetine equivalents.
Some patients dropped out due to side effects.
The relationship between the dose of the drug and dropouts for any reason suggests the best acceptability for using SSRIs is in the lower licensed range between 20 mg and 40 mg fluoxetine equivalents.
Venlafaxine (a type of antidepressant) has an initially increasing  relationship between dose amount and drug performance up to 75-150mg, followed by a more modest increase, whereas for another antidepressant called mirtazapine, performance increased up to a dose of about 30 mg and then decreased.
Both venlafaxine and mirtazapine worked well in the lower range of their licensed dose.
These results performed well in several sensitivity analyses to assess strength and uncertainty in a study.
For the most common newer antidepressants, the lower range of the dose achieves the best balance between performance, tolerability (the degree to which drugs' negative effects can be handled by patients), and acceptability in the treatment of major depression.
