At what strength is prozac usually begun for a patient changing from another antidepressant?

In children, generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) includes having more than normal and uncontrollable worry about different events and is also includes physical symptoms such as headaches, tension, restlessness, digestive problems, and a racing heartbeat.
Symptoms interfere with social, emotional, and educational experiences.
GAD occurs in over 10% of children and adolescents and usually starts at the age of 8.5 years. GAD is more often reported in girls.
Common conditions that occur with GAD include getting very anxious when separated from family or the main caregiver and social phobia, an intense fear of being in front of others or being watched or judged.
Multiple methods are used to test for GAD and includes the child, parents, and school teachers.
An interview is recommended to look for the three main ways anxiety is shown: behaviors, thoughts, and somatic (physical) symptoms.
Several interview formats to make a diagnosis are available. The Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule is increasingly used.
Ratings scales are completed by the patient, caregivers, and teachers and provide useful information for diagnosis and symptom monitoring.
Several scales are able to make a GAD diagnosis which is a diagnosis based on the well-known handbook of mental disorders used by many providers; however, interview tools usually cannot make the distinction between children with GAD and children with similar anxiety disorders.
Cognitive-behavioral therapy, which is a type of therapy that focuses on challenging negative thoughts that can worsen emotional difficulties, is shown to be a part positive effect for the treatment of GAD. Additionally, a type of antidepressant called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) also show benefits for the treatment of pediatric anxiety disorders including GAD.
Evidence suggests that the combination of cognitive-behavioral therapy plus sertraline (an SSRI medication) offers additional benefit when compared with either treatment alone.
When using medications for treatment, it is important to monitor and track negative side effects that occur such as headaches, stomach aches, behavioral activation, worsening symptoms, and emerging suicidal thoughts.
Recommended starting doses of SSRIs are fluvoxamine 25 mg/day, fluoxetine 10 mg/day, and sertraline 25 mg/day, though starting with lower doses is possible.
Dosing can be changed as often as weekly with the goal of achieving a high-quality response, while minimizing side effects.
Long-term treatment with medication has not been well studied; however, to reach the best long-term outcome, extended use of the medication may be required.
It is recommended to continue medication for about 1 year after remission in symptoms, and to choose a stress-free time of the year when stopping medication.
If symptoms return, restarting the medication should be considered seriously.
