At what strength is prozac usually begun for a patient changing from another antidepressant?

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are a recently developed type of drugs that works better as an antidepressant than a placebo, a type of substance that looks like a real pill but is not the real medicine.
In clinical studies, all SSRIs showed that they have similar effectiveness as standard antidepressants that are older types of medicines.
However, because of the small patient numbers in most studies that compare SSRIs with other antidepressants, no definite statements on how the effectiveness compares between the two types of drugs can be made.
In these studies, it is simply possible to state that no significant differences based on data analysis are identified between SSRIs and the other type of antidepressants they are being compared to.
Importantly, differences in medical features and measures exist between the SSRIs, including differences in the time it takes for the amount of the drug in the body to be reduced to half its starting amount between fluoxetine (a type of antidepressant also called prozac) and other SSRIs.
The findings from these existing studies may lead to other effects, including how two or more drugs react to one another which must be considered when patients are switched to treatment with an earlier antidepressant.
The structure of clinical studies differs between fluvoxamine, which includes inpatients and outpatients, and other SSRIs which mainly take place in outpatient settings.
Fluvoxamine is associated with a high frequency of nausea (37%), although this may be the result from patients starting with a high dose that are often used in early trials instead of the standard dose.
Additionally, fluoxetine doses of 20mg may be enough to produce a satisfactory antidepressant response, and this SSRI may be particularly useful in patients with chronic retarded depression, a depression disorder where symptoms include slow movement and toneless speech.
More clinical data are needed before the effectiveness of sertraline and citalopram (two other SSRIs) relative to standard antidepressants can be clearly defined.
Early data suggests that SSRIs are effective in the treatment of panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), eating (e.g. anorexia and bulimia) and personality disorders (e.g. anger, impulsiveness) and substance abuse (e.g. alcoholism). There are encouraging early results with fluvoxamine in the treatment of panic disorder and OCD, and with fluoxetine in the treatment of bulimia, personality disorders and alcohol abuse.
Patients are able to handle the side effects of SSRIs better than tricyclic antidepressants and, unlike the tricyclics, SSRIs are not associated with adverse effects of anticholinergic drugs that treat a number of health problems, sedation, damage to the heart, or weight gain.
SSRIs are associated with a high count of nausea, particularly if high doses are used at the start of treatment.
However, the frequency of nausea appears to decrease as treatment is continued.
