How is strep throat treated?

Background: Diagnosing group A streptococcus (Strep A) throat infection by clinical examination is difficult, and misdiagnosis may lead to inappropriate antibiotic use.
Most patients with sore throat seek symptom relief rather than antibiotics, therefore, therapies that relieve symptoms should be recommended to patients.
We report two clinical trials on the efficacy and safety of flurbiprofen 8.75 mg lozenge in patients with and without streptococcal sore throat.
Methods: The studies enrolled adults with moderate-to-severe throat symptoms (sore throat pain, difficulty swallowing and swollen throat) and a diagnosis of pharyngitis.
The practitioner assessed the likelihood of Strep A infection based on historical and clinical findings.
Patients were randomised to flurbiprofen 8.75 mg or placebo lozenges under double-blind conditions and reported the three throat symptoms at baseline and at regular intervals over 24 h.
Results: A total of 402 patients received study medication (n = 203 flurbiprofen, n = 199 placebo).
Throat culture identified Strep A in 10.0% of patients and group C streptococcus (Strep C) in a further 14.0%.
The practitioners' assessments correctly diagnosed Strep A in 11/40 cases (sensitivity 27.5%, and specificity 79.7%).
A single flurbiprofen lozenge provided significantly greater relief than placebo for all three throat symptoms, lasting 3-4 h for patients with and without Strep A/C.
Multiple doses of flurbiprofen lozenges over 24 h also led to symptom relief, although not statistically significant in the Strep A/C group.
There were no serious adverse events.
Conclusions: The results highlight the challenge of identifying Strep A based on clinical features.
With the growing problem of antibiotic resistance, non-antibiotic treatments should be considered.
As demonstrated here, flurbiprofen 8.75 mg lozenges are an effective therapeutic option, providing immediate and long-lasting symptom relief in patients with and without Strep A/C infection.
