How is strep throat treated?

Most people who go to a doctor for sore throat are worried they have a strep throat and tonsil infection, but fewer than 10% of adults and 30% of children actually have a strep infection.
Group A strep bacteria are the most common cause of bacterial strep throat and tonsil infection, but other bacteria known to cause sexually-transmitted gonorrhea or chlamydia, or head, neck, and lung infections occasionally might cause it.
Remaining sore throat issues are caused by viruses and unknown causes.
Relying on a doctor's exam to diagnose group A strep throat and tonsil infection causes problems. Experienced doctors over-diagnose 80 to 95% of adult cases.
Doctors treating someone more than needed leads to the ability of bacteria to defeat the antibiotics designed to kill them, affects small organisms that live in or on the human body, and may cause side effects that are not needed.
Studies show combining a rapid strep testing (using a throat swab to detect bacterial fragments) with a doctor exam can be helpful for diagnosis.
When used correctly, a rapid strep test has high accuracy for group A strep throat and tonsil infection detection and does not cost a lot.
Penicillin has been the preferred treatment for group A strep throat and tonsil infection since the 1950s. Taking penicillin for 10 days is needed to kill all the group A bacteria.
One benzathine penicillin shot works and does not require people following doctor instructions.
Until the early 1970s, the rate of group A strep bacteria coming back after treatment was low and thought to be caused by people who had long-term Group A bacteria in their bodies.
Since the late 1970s, the rate of group A strep bacteria coming back after treatment more than doubled according to studies.
Reasons for reoccurring group A strep throat and tonsil infection are people not following doctor instructions; getting the infection again from a family member or peer; infection caused by group A strep bacteria and other bacteria; taking antibiotics too early in the infection; group A strep bacteria defeating antibiotics used to kill them; antibiotics killing small organisms in the throat that protect it; and people who have the bacteria in their bodies but are not sick.
When treatment doesn't work, milder symptoms may happen as symptoms return.
Many substances that kill small organisms have worked better than penicillin to kill group A strep bacteria and are given less often to increase the rate at which people follow doctor orders.
In group A strep and tonsil infection that is not treated, cephalosporins, another type of antibiotic, kill all group A strep bacteria more often than penicillin. After penicillin is taken and does not cure group A strep throat and tonsil infection, this rate is higher.
A combination of amoxicillin and clavulanate, other antibiotics, and clarithromycin and azithromycin, another kind of antibiotics called macrolides that kill more types of bacteria, may also kill more bacteria than penicillin.
