How can covid cause cell injury?

Background: Inflammation-mediated lung injury is a major cause of health problems in many countries and has been the leading cause of morbidity/mortality in intensive care units.
In the current COVID-19 pandemic, the majority of the patients experienced serious pneumonia resulting from inflammation (Acute respiratory distress syndrome/ARDS).
Pathogenic infections cause cytokine release syndrome (CRS) by hyperactivation of immune cells, which in turn release excessive cytokines causing ARDS.
Currently, there are no standard therapies for viral, bacterial or pathogen-mediated CRS.
Purpose: This study aimed to investigate and validate the protective effects of Dehydrozingerone (DHZ) against LPS induced lung cell injury by in-vitro and in-vivo models and to gain insights into the molecular mechanisms that mediate these therapeutic effects.
Methods: The therapeutic activity of DHZ was determined in in-vitro models by pre-treating the cells with DHZ and exposed to LPS to stimulate the inflammatory cascade of events.
We analysed the effect of DHZ on LPS induced inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and cell damage markers expression/levels using various cell lines.
We performed gene expression, ELISA, and western blot analysis to elucidate the effect of DHZ on inflammation and its modulation of MAPK and NF-κB pathways.
Further, the prophylactic and therapeutic effect of DHZ was evaluated against the LPS induced ARDS model in rats.
Results: DHZ significantly (p < 0.01) attenuated the LPS induced ROS, inflammatory cytokine, chemokine gene expression and protein release in macrophages.
Similarly, DHZ treatment protected the lung epithelial and endothelial cells by mitigating the LPS induced inflammatory events in a dose-dependent manner.
In vivo analysis showed that DHZ treatment significantly (p < 0.001) mitigated the LPS induced ARDS pathophysiology of increase in the inflammatory cells in BALF, inflammatory cytokine and chemokines in lung tissues.
LPS stimulated neutrophil-mediated events, apoptosis, alveolar wall thickening and alveolar inflammation were profoundly reduced by DHZ treatment in a rat model.
Conclusion: This study demonstrates for the first time that DHZ has the potential to ameliorate LPS induced ARDS by inhibiting cytokine storm and oxidative through modulating the MAPK and NF-κB pathways.
This data provides pre-clinical support to develop DHZ as a potential therapeutic agent against ARDS.
