How can covid cause cell injury?

The pandemic of COVID-19 (a viral, breathing-related disease) has raised concerns about the harmful effects antibodies can have. Antibodies are proteins used by the immune system to identify and neutralize viruses.
Antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) is a unique occurrence in which virus-specific antibodies actually increase entrance of the virus into the host. ADE is a big concern for both people who are exposed to COVID-19 and those who receive the vaccine.
In this study, the authors evaluated ADE of infection by using COVID-19 convalescent-phase plasma (a specific of plasma often used to treat infections) and human cells expressing Fcγ receptors (FcγRs), special receptors on infection-fighting cells.
The authors found two Fcγ receptors mediated or controlled most ADE of infection against COVID-19.
Although ADE of infection was found in macrophages (a white blood cell) infected with COVID-19, and its variants, proteins that increase inflammation were not upregulated or increased.
COVID-19 creates antibodies that cause ADE of infection. However, these antibodies do not increase inflammatory or infection-fighting responses by macrophages.
Viruses infect cells mainly through specific receptors (pathways) on the cell surface.
ADE of infection is an alternative way that viruses can infect immune cells. ADE is mediated by antibodies and FcγRs.
Because ADE of infection contributes to the development of some viruses, it is import to better understand the exact way ADE contributes to COVID-19 progression.
In this study, using plasma or blood from COVID-19 patients, we found that two types of Fcγ receptors mediate ADE of COVID-19 infection.
Although ADE of infection was seen for COVID-19, and its variants, increased inflammatory responses in macrophages was not found.
These findings suggest that COVID-19 infection produces antibodies that produce ADE of infection. However, these antibodies may not be involved in pro-inflammatory pathways by macrophages.
