How can covid cause cell injury?

New scientific research has shown that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), or COVID-19 (a viral, breathing-related disease), can infect various parts of the body, including cells within the heart.
This paper reviews the effects COVID-19 has on the heart after direct infection, which can lead to myocarditis. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle.  This paper will also outline potential treatment options for this illness.
The authors proposed seven potential treatment options to help reduce heart injury in COVID-19 patients. First, the virus uses specific entry points to infect heart cells so that it can replicate and grow stronger.
Therefore, specific drugs that target these entry points might be helpful.
Second, COVID-19 uses a specific pathway to replicate itself. This pathway uses RNA, a chain of genetic material that helps form proteins.
Drugs that prevent the creation of RNA for viral replication could be helpful.
Third, COVID-19 decreases the body's ability to degrade infected cells. This prevents the body from decreasing the amount of virus within it. COVID-19 is able to replicate as it creates double-membrane vesicles, extra-strong chambers, as spaces safe from the body's natural defense system.
Fourth, COVID-19 can cause the host immune response to be changed so that the virus is not targeted for removal. It can also increase inflammation (redness and swelling from fighting an infection) which alters the function of immune cells.
Better understanding of drugs that suppress the immune system is needed.
Fifth, COVID-19 prevents cells from dying in the early stages of infection but induces cell death later, once it has replicated and moved to other cells.
Sixth, COVID-19 infection can disturb energy metabolism (the process in getting energy from food). This can reduce energy production and affect cell function and viability.
Seventh, COVID-19 creates virus proteins to lead to an imbalance within the host body.
This can cause cell death, abnormal heart function, and an abnormal heartbeat.
