Stage 3 kidney disease. Is there a shot you can take that will keep you off dialysis?

Diet changes are usually recommended in people with long-lasting or chronic kidney disease (CKD) since studies suggest certain healthy eating patterns may prevent heart-related events and lower deaths.
People with kidney disease have important diet changes as a treatment uncertainty.
This review explored the pros and cons of dietary treatment in adults with CKD including those with kidney failure treated with an artificial kidney machine or kidney transplant.
We included 17 studies with 1639 people with CKD.
Three studies used 341 people treated with an artifical kidney disease. Four studies had 168 kidney transplant receivers. 10 studies had 1130 people with low to severe CKD.
Eleven studies (900 people) evaluated diet counselling with or without lifestyle advice. Six evaluated diet patterns (739 people), including one study (191 people) of a carb-restricted low-iron, high plant-nutrient diet, two studies (181 people) of increased fruit and vegetable intake, two studies (355 people) of a Mediterranean diet and one study (12 people) of a high protein/low carb diet.
Risk of bias in the studies were generally high or unclear, casting doubts in the results.
Participants were checked for an average of 12 months.
Studies were not made to examine all-cause death or heart-related events.
In very-low quality results, diet interventions had uncertain effects on all-cause deaths or kidney failure.
In established results, diet treatments may prevent kidney failure in one in every 3000 people, although the certainty of this effect was very low.
Across all 17 studies, outcome data for heart-related evens was rare.
Diet treatments in low quality evidence was linked with a higher heart-related quality of life.
Side effects were generally not reported.
Diet treatments lowered systolic and diastolic blood pressure compared to a control or regular diet.
Diet treatments were linked with a higher kidney filtration rate and blood levels of albumin, a blood protein.
A Mediterranean diet lowered "unwanted" blood cholesterol levels.
Diet treatments have uncertain effects on death, heart-related events, and kidney failure among people with CKD since these outcomes were rarely measured or reported.
Diet treatment may increased health-related quality of life, kidney filtration rate, and blood albumin. Diet treatment may lower blood pressure and blood cholesterol levels.
Based on the importance of diet research for CKD and initial evidence of beneficial effects on health, large-scale studies to test the effects of diet treatments on patient outcomes are needed.
