Stage 3 kidney disease. Is there a shot you can take that will keep you off dialysis?

Methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta (PEG-EPO) is an injection that is often used to treat anemia (low red blood cells) due to chronic kidney disease.
It stays in the body long enough to be given once per month.
The objective of this study is to evaluate the use, effectiveness and cost of PEG-EPO in a group of chronic kidney failure patients who have not started dialysis, a process of using a machine to clean the blood of a person whose kidneys are not working normally.
This study uses data from pre-dialysis patients who started treatment with Methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta (PEG-EPO) between May 2008 and February 2009.
The following data are gathered: age, sex, hemoglobin levels (count of proteins that carry oxygen in the blood) and the dose and frequency of medication called erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) to help make red blood cells.
The follow-up period is 12 months.
The study included 198 patients.
The average hemoglobin levels when patients start PEG-EPO who had received no prior treatment is 10.8 grams/liter, and is 11.6 grams/liter at 90 days.
In patients who are previously treated with ESA medications to help make red blood cells, the average hemoglobin levels before starting PEG-EPO treatment is 11.2 grams/liter, and is 11.4 grams/liter at 12 months.
Hemoglobin levels are higher than 12 grams/liter after 12 months of treatment in 25% of patients. Among these patients, 45% have levels above 13 grams/liter.
Researchers observed doses 39% lower than those listed on the drug leaflet or description, resulting in less cost than originally expected.
In conclusion, the doses of PEG-EPO given to patients with a prior history of erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) treatment are lower than those noted in the drug leaflet. Also, hemoglobin levels remained stable after 12 months of treatment.
A large portion of the patients had levels above the 13 grams/liter threshold.
