Nephrotic syndrome what happens when gets bad?

Nephrotic Syndrome (NS) is a combination of kidney-related symptoms. Children with NS are at risk for serious kidney damage for a number of reasons. These include too little blood, infection, medications, and swelling in the kidneys.
The aim of this study was to find out how often serious kidney damage happens in children that had NS come back, and the short-term outcome of that damage.
This study followed people over time and was conducted from February 2017 to January 2018 at a teaching hospital with highly specialized care.
We enrolled a total of 54 children and adolescents who were hospitalized with a diagnosis of NS that came back, with or without associated problems.
We recorded health-related information.

To figure out what puts children more at risk for serious kidney damage, we followed up with children who had this problem during the first two weeks of hospitalization. We continued following up with them either until they recovered or until six weeks, whichever was earlier.
The average age of people in the study was 59.5 months. Thirty-five of the patients (65%) were male.
Out of the 54 patients that were hospitalized, 42 had returning NS that was associated with infections. Twenty-two percent of children had returning NS only.
The most common infections were diarrhea and bacterial infections of the peritoneum, the lining of the abdominal cavity. The next most common were urinary tract infections and pneumonia.
Twenty-three or 27 children developed serious kidney damage, depending on the criteria used.

The most common factors that increased risk of serious kidney damage were infections and the use of ACE inhibitors.
The average time for recovery from the serious kidney damage was about 7 days.
Serious kidney damage was associated with longer hospital stays and delayed recovery.
At the end of the followup, all children recovered from the kidney damage.
Children hospitalized with problems associated with NS have high rates of serious kidney damage.
These instances of serious kidney damage may seem to come and go, but happening repeatedly may cause long-term problems for children with NS.
Infections and the use of ACE inhibitors increases the risk of serious kidney damage.
