Nephrotic syndrome what happens when gets bad?

There’s not a lot of information about Nephrotic Syndrome (NS) in older Japanese people.
The goal of this study was to look at the causes and outcomes of NS in older patients that had kidney biopsies (tissue samples) between 2007 and 2010.
From a registry in Japan, we found all Japanese NS patients 65 or older who had kidney biopsies (tissue samples) from July 2007 to June 2010. This included 438 patients, 226 men and 212 women.
Out of these patients, we looked closer at 61 that had certain types of NS.
To know how well treatments worked, we looked at the levels of protein in the patients’ urine.
In this group of older people with NS, more than half (58%) had a type called Membranous Nephropathy (MN). Another 19% had Minimal Change Nephrotic Syndrome (MCNS), 17% had Focal Segmental Glomerosclerosis (FSGS), and 8% had membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN).
A drug called prednisolone, which suppresses the immune system, was given to 86% of the patients with MN, 94% of the patients with MCNS, and all 6 patients with FSGS.
The disease was completely cured in all 19 MCNS patients.
Fifty-five percent of MN patients were completely cured and 62% were at least partially cured. Sixty-six percent of FSGS patients were completely cured and 83% were partially cured.
There were meaningful differences in how long it took for different types of NS to be cured.  The differences depended both on the type of NS (MCNS, FSGS, or MN) and whether MCNS patients were 75 or older.
The disease came back in 7% of patients with MN and 47% of patients with MCNS.
Seven percent of patients with MN had problems with kidney function.
Eight patients had serious problems. For example, two of them died, four were hospitalized for infections, and two developed malignant tumors.
Treatment for diabetes was needed for 14 of the 61 patients with higher initial steroid dosage.
Conclusions we can make include the fact that kidney biopsies are valuable for diagnosing NS in older Japanese patients.
Also, in this study, most older NS patients responded well to drugs that suppress the immune system.
On the other hand, infections are a harmful related problem among older people with NS, especially if they have MCNS.
In the future, doctors should update guidelines for older NS patients.
