What causes muscle spasm?

Dystonia is a complicated brain-related movement disorder with uncontrollable muscle contractions.
Many studies imply microorganisms inside us as a possible factor for brain-related disorders, but the link between the gut microorganisms (microbiota) and dystonia remains poorly explored.
Here, the gut microbiota of 57 patients with dystonia and 27 age- and environment-matched healthy patients was analyzed by 16S DNA sequencing.
Further, we analyzed the gut microbiome and molecules in the blood.
No change in some gut-diversity was found, while other gut-diversity was very different, with a more diverse community among dystonia patients than among healthy patients (controls).
The most different change in dystonia showed an increase in certain types of microorganisms labeled Clostridiales, including Blautia obeum, Dorea longicatena, and Eubacterium hallii, and a reduction in other microorganisms labeled Bacteroides vulgatus and Bacteroides plebeius.
The analysis showed that genes related to the molecules tryptophan and purine creation were more abundant in gut microbiota from patients with dystonia, while genes linked to energy cycles, vitamin B6, and glycan (a specific sugar) breakdown were less abundant.
Analyzing blood molecules revealed changed levels of molecules called l-glutamic acid, taurine, and d-tyrosine, suggesting changes in brain signaling molecule metabolism.
The most modified molecules decreased with the abundance of microorganism members belonging to the Clostridiales, revealing the effect of the gut microbiota on brain molecule activity.
This study is the first to show gut microbial differences in patients with dystonia and found possible links between gut microbiota and blood brain signaling molecules, providing new insight into the causes of dystonia.
IMPORTANCE Dystonia is the third most common movement disorder after tremors and Parkinson's disease (a brain disorder affecting movement).
However, the cause for many cases is not known.
This is the first study so far that reveals significant changes of gut microbiome and links the change of blood molecules with gut changes in patients with dystonia.
We show a general overrepresentation of Clostridiales and underrepresentation of Bacteroidetes in patients with dystonia compared to healthy controls.
The analysis found that genes related to the creation tryptophan, which makes the brain signaling molecule serotonin, were more active in dystonia patients.
Changed levels of several blood molecules were found to be linked with microbial changes, such as d-tyrosine, taurine, and glutamate, indicating differences in brain signaling molecule metabolism in dystonia.
Analysis suggests that brain signaling molecule system dysfunction may be a possible pathway by which the gut microbiome participates in the development of dystonia.
The gut microbiome changes provide new insight into the cause of dystonia, suggesting new potential treatment directions.
