What is islet cell antibody group?

Obese youth diagnosed with type 2 diabetes by a doctor often have islet cell autoimmunity (in which immune cells attack healthy cells).
We looked at the observable and biochemical differences, and treatment types of self-made protein positive (Ab+) vs. self-made protein negative (Ab-) youth at diagnosis and over time at a medical facility.
We reviewed medical charts of 145 obese youth diagnosed with type 2 diabetes from January 2003 to July 2012.
Of these 145 youth, 70 patients were Ab+ and 75 Ab-.
We compared the disease symptoms, physical qualities, lab findings, and treatment types of the two groups at diagnosis and during follow up to rate the changes in these things related to disease development.
At the doctor, Ab+ youth with a doctor's diagnosis of type 2 diabetes were younger, had higher rates of not enough carbohydrates to burn, higher hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c - which indicates average blood sugar levels) and blood sugar levels, and lower insulin and signs of insulin production compared with the Ab- group.
The Ab- group had a higher body mass index (BMI) score adjusted for weight and gender and risk factors for heart disease and metabolic disorders at diagnosis and did not change over time.
Treatment type had no effect on BMI in either group.
We found that: (i) length of diabetes affected BMI score adjusted for weight and gender and diastolic blood pressure, (ii) changes In BMI score adjusted for weight and gender affected systolic blood pressure and ALT (alanine transaminase; released into the blood when liver cells are damaged), and (iii) changes in HbA1c affected lipid profile (panel of blood tests used to find abnormalities in lipids, such as cholesterol and triglycerides) and risk factors for heart disease and metabolic disorders independent of antibody (infection-fighting protein) status.
Regardless of antibody status and treatment type, obese and diabetic youth do not become less obese over time, with higher BMI affecting blood pressure and ALT, and blood sugar levels affecting the lipid profile.
Controlling BMI and blood sugar levels are needed to lessen future large blood vessel problems regardless of antibody status.
