What is islet cell antibody group?

We studied the effect of drastically reducing beta-cell (insulin-producing cell) mass by removing 90% of the pancreas on immune tolerance (state of unresponsiveness of the body's defense) to the endocrine pancreas, which controls blood sugar levels.
Four months after removal of almost all of the pancreas, all rats had developed signs of long-term inflammation (infection-fighting) response of islets (clusters of cells that produce hormones) and 9 of 14 rats had islet-cell antibodies (proteins made against insulin-producing cells).
Using microscopes, we saw immune white blood cells going into the part of the pancreas that produces substances (enzymes) that help with digestion, death of beta cells, and white blood cells that remove dying and dead cells.
We saw none of these changes 2 weeks after removing 90% of the pancreas or 4 months after removing 10% of the pancreas.
Weekly substitution of islet antigens (substances that causes the body to defend itself) in rats with 90% of the pancreas removed prevented insulitis (disease of the pancreas caused by the infiltration of immune white blood cells) and self-made proteins.
Insulitis was shown to be dependent on T cells (part of the body's defense system).
The tissue that produces substances (enzymes) that help with digestion did not change in any group.
During the observation period, insulitis was not related to diabetes, but we saw a sizeable increase in the sizes of islets and beta-cell mass.
Decreasing islet inflammation by injecting islet antigens (fragments) stopped beta-cell regrowth, even though low energy continued in rats with 90% of the pancreas removed.
The results suggest removing 90% but not 10% of the pancreas causes the body to mistakenly destroy its islets.
We conclude that drastically reducing the islet-antigen mass allows the body to mistakenly destroy its islets, which shows a loss of immune tolerance.
Also, the results suggest islet-antigen autoreactive immune cells exist in rats not likely to develop autoimmune diabetes (diabetes from the body mistakenly destroying its own cells).
Finally, we conclude that some beta-cell regrowth happens with insulitis.
