How long is covid 19 communicable?

Coronavirus disease 2019, also known as COVID-19, is a highly contagious, viral, breathing-related disease that has caused world-wide distress. Continual spread of COVID-19 occurs between people in close contact with one another through coughing, sneezing, breathing, talking, and touching dirty hands or surfaces.
To prevent further spread of COVID-19, a period of quarantine (isolation) is recommended for those suspected of having COVID-19 and/or those who believe they have come in contact with a COVID-19-infected person.
In most countries, the recommended quarantine duration is 14 days. This is because the incubation period, or the time between exposure and the first signs of illness, of respiratory or breathing-related illnesses is normally between 4 to 7.5 days.
However, potential COVID-19 patients are still contagious during the incubation period. Cases with incubation periods longer than 14 days need further evaluation by doctors.
For example, a 70-year-old man was admitted to the hospital on April 5th, reporting a cough, the spitting up of saliva and mucus, and shortness of breath.
On April 10th, the man was transferred to the Fever Clinic within the hospital for additional treatment as he had experienced close contact with a confirmed COVID-19 patient.
From April 10th to May 6th, the man was tested for COVID-19 several times. All tests returned negative, detecting no COVID-19.
On May 7th, the man developed a severe fever, and his breathing issues become worse.
The man was tested again for COVID-19 and was positive, detecting COVID-19.
On May 8th, a second COVID-19 test was conducted by the Heilongjiang Provincial Center for Disease Control and was returned positive. The man was diagnosed with COVID-19, and his health status was recorded by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.
This example shows the importance of the COVID-19 incubation period.
Additional research is needed to better define the incubation period of COVID-19 to create quarantine measures that best protect human health.
