How long is covid 19 communicable?

In December 2019, a new human coronavirus that affects the breathing or respiratory system, known as COVID-19, was identified in China.
Little is known about how COVID-19 impacts human health, including how long the disease's incubation period (the time between initial exposure and the first signs of illness) lasts. Knowing the incubation period of the disease is important for preventing further spread.
The goal of this paper was to estimate the length of the COVID-19 incubation period and how it impacts the public's health.
To reach this goal, the authors reviewed confirmed COVID-19 cases that were reported between January 4th to February 24th in 2020.
The information was gathered from news reports and press releases from over 50 locations outside of Wuhan city within the Hubei province of China.
Only people with confirmed COVID-19 infection outside of the Hubei province of China were of interest for the evaluation.
Patient characteristics (e.g. age, ethnicity) and specific health measurements (e.g. dates of exposure, start of symptoms) were reviewed.
In total, 181 confirmed COVID-19 cases with definable exposure points and start of symptoms were evaluated for incubation period estimation.
The average incubation period was estimated to be 5.1 days. Overall, the majority of people will develop symptoms within 11.5 days after time of infection.
These estimates imply that a portion of the population (101 out of every 10,000 COVID-19 patients) will show symptoms after 14 days of quarantine.
Because only cases from new outlets and press releases were evaluated, the estimations may be based on more severe COVID-19 cases. Mild cases, which may go unreported, may have a different incubation period.
Even though the data for mild COVID-19 cases may differ, this estimate provides support for an average incubation period for COVID-19 of 5 days.
This estimation may help in the creation of appropriate quarantine measures for persons potentially exposed to COVID-19.
