How long is covid 19 communicable?

The strength of current public health measures to prevent the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), or COVID-19 (a viral respiratory disease), has not been well studied in young adults.
The authors investigated COVID-19 infections amongst U.S. Marine Corps recruits. These recruits underwent a two-week quarantine )or isolation) within their personal homes before participating in a second two-week quarantine. The second quarantine was supervised at a closed college campus where recruits wore masks, practiced social distancing, and received daily temperature and symptoms monitoring.
Participants in the study were tested for COVID-19 by using nose swabs taken between the time of arrival and the second day of supervised quarantine. A second COVID-19 test run with nose swab samples was conducted on days 7 and 14.
Marine recruits who did not want to participate in the study only received one COVID-19 test on day 14 (the final day of supervised quarantine).
To identify clusters of unique COVID-19 cases and to better understand how the virus affects public health, the researchers studied the genetic makeup of COVID-19 within samples from the nose swabs.
In total, 1848 recruits volunteered to participate in the study. Within the first two days of supervised quarantine, 16 recruits tested positive for (or had) COVID-19. Fifteen of the 16 positive cases did not show symptoms of illness.
An additional 35 participants tested positive on day 7 or on day 14.
Fifty-one participants tested positive at any time. Five of these patients had symptoms before their COVID-19 test returned positive.
Of the recruits who declined to participate in the study, 26 of the 1554 recruits with available COVID-19 test results were positive on day 14.
No COVID-19 infections were identified through clinical testing performed as a result of daily symptom monitoring.
The evaluation of the genetic makeup of the virus identified six spreading clusters among 18 participants.
Tracing of the virus transmission identified several spreading events, including between roommates and among recruits within the same platoon.
The authors concluded that among the recruits, around 2% of those who had tested negative for (or did not have) COVID-19 on day 1 of supervised quarantine, along with 2% of those with unknown previous status, tested positive by day 14.
Most recruits who tested positive showed no signs of illness. No infections were detected through daily symptom monitoring.
Spreading clusters occurred within platoons.
