Does phosphatidylserine support memory in people with me/cfs?

This study is a literature review of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS - long-lasting tiredness).
This study provides a description of the background, cause, development, diagnosis, and management regarding CFS.
CFS is a multifaceted illness that has many symptoms and a wide array of clinical presentations.
As of recent, CFS has been merged with myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME). ME is a disease characterized with profound fatigue, abnormal sleep, and pain.
Much of the difficulty in its management has stemmed from a lack of a concrete understanding of its cause and development.
There is a potential association between dysfunction of the autoimmune (immune cells attacking healthy cells), neuroendocrine (brain- and hormonal-related system), or autonomic nervous systems and CFS development.
Possible triggering events, such as infections followed by an immune dysregulation, have been proposed as potential causes.
ME/CFS was first described following Epstein Barr virus (EBV - herpes virus) infections. It was later determined that it was not always preceded by EBV infection.
Patient diagnosed with CFS have shown a noticeably earlier activation of anaerobic metabolism (no-oxygen energy production on the cellular level) as a source of energy. This suggests impaired oxygen consumption.
The differential (different) diagnoses range from tick-borne illnesses to psychiatric disorders to metabolism-regulating thyroid gland dysfunction.
The many overlapping symptoms of CFS with other illnesses makes diagnosis very hard.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) considers it a diagnosing of exclusion, meaning other illnesses have to first be excluded before CFS diagnosis can be offered. The CDC states that self-reported fatigue for a minimum of six months and four additional symptoms are necessary for diagnosis. These symptoms include: memory problems, sore throat, post-exertion illness, tender cervical (neck) or axillary (armpit) lymph nodes, muscle pain, multi-joint pain, headaches, and troubled sleep.
Management of CFS is just as difficult.
Treatment ranges from conservative (e.g. antidepressants) to minimally invasive (surgical) management.
Minimally invasive management can involve transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation (non-surgical electrical pain relief) of target points. This treatment was shown to improve fatigue and associated symptoms in a 2017 study.
The understanding of CFS is continuously evolving as the medical community tries to learn more about it.
Further reliable studies will be conducted, providing a better grasp of what the syndrome encompasses. From this, researchers will be able to improve diagnosis and management of the disease.
