How can i reduce my potassium levels?

In patients with advanced, long-standing (chronic) kidney disease (CKD), the kidney function continues to decline. This  decrease in kidney function leads to an greater risk of hyperkalemia. Hyperkalemia is a condition where the potassium level in the blood is higher than normal.  Potassium is a very important mineral in the body. Hyperkalemia is a important problem that happens mostly in people with long-lasting kidney disease.
Some drugs can also cause an additional risk of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). One such class of drugs, is the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors (RAAS blockers). The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is a hormone system that manages blood pressure and fluid balance in the body.
When hyperkalemia develops, doctors often advise patients to go on a diet that is lower in potassium.
This study talks about the things that stop patients from following a low potassium diet. The paper also discusses what the effect of following a strict diet can have on poor patient outcomes.
Facts are showing that a diet that includes foods high in potassium is good for your health. These same foods may be good for your health because they also contain other vitamins, minerals, and fiber.
These benefits include lowering your blood pressure. The benefits also include lowering the risks for heart disease, blood vessel disease , and stroke.
Foods high in potassium may also prevent chronic kidney disease (CKD) from getting worse. High-potassium foods may also decrease the risk of death in patients with CKD.
Newer drugs, patiromer and sodium zirconium cyclosilicate, bind and get rid of excess potassium from the body. The use of these drugs may allow for renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitor (RAAS blocker) therapy in patients with CKD and hyperkalemia. Doctors using these drugs together may make it possible for patients with CKD and hyperkalemia to have more freedom with their diets.
This treatment approach may give patients the health benefits of a high-potassium diet without the increased risk for hyperkalemia. Further studies are needed.
