How do you assist an unconscious victim who is already vomiting?

We divided 180 cases of head injury based on the level of loss of wakefulness and awareness, medical and brain-related symptoms observed by a doctor, and a common brain function test.
Based on x-rays, symptoms observed by a doctor, and blood gas tests, we studied how often and how much blood, vomit or debris entered the airways and the lung complications that occurred as a result.
As consciousness went away, how often material entered the airways and the amount of material breathed in increased.
Material entering the airways happened in 60 percent of cases of severe head injury based on symptoms observed by a doctor and x-rays.
A comparison of two groups after they received first aid and artificial aid to breathe showed that the levels of oxygen dissolved in the blood were much lower in patients with x-rays that showed material entered the airways and the lungs than those with normal chest x-rays.
These findings suggest a relationship between the amount of material breathed in and how much blood put out by the heart lacks enough oxygen.
Persons who had a breathing tube and those who did not before admission to the hospital did not differ in how often material entered the airways.
Although often in head injuries blood entering the airways after the accident cannot be prevented quickly, putting in a breathing tube is the only thing that will lessen the consequences of material entering the airways and prevent it from happening again.
As the second result is a very real risk in the unconscious person, putting in a breathing tube in these cases is a "must".
The study also showed that material from outside the body entering the airways and the lung complications that occurred as a result can be successfully treated even if the head injury is very severe.
In the cases we looked at, death did not result from any of these causes.
Aside from putting in a breathing tube and clearing mucus and secretions from the airways, substituting a person's breathing with gas mixtures with high levels of oxygen plays a big role in lung complications from material entering the airways.
