How do you assist an unconscious victim who is already vomiting?

A person with a serious head injury is often very difficult to treat.
The airways are the most important concern; enough air movement must be provided, and material entering the airway or lungs by accident must be avoided.
Recent studies suggest that quick breathing or hyperventilation may be as helpful as was thought before.
As the amount of carbon dioxide gas dissolved in the blood decreases, blood vessels narrow.
If the amount of carbon dioxide gas dissolved in the blood gets too low, blood flow to the brain is limited, and not enough oxygen getting to the brain may follow.
Current standards suggest a rate of movement of air into and out of the lungs to allow for a decrease in carbon dioxide gas dissolved in the blood, in theory to narrow the vessels but still allow enough circulation of blood through organs and tissues.
Measuring oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in the blood in the emergency department is the best measurement of airway treatment by first responders.
Remember that the structure of the brain's protective layers puts the arteries in the space between the outermost layer and the skull (epidural) and the veins in the space between the outermost layer and the brain (subdural).
A bleed in the epidural space often has quick signs and symptoms, as was obvious in this injured patient.
A bleed in the subdural space usually happens more slowly, and knowing what happened to the person is key to a diagnosis by first responders.
As the bleeding spreads, pressure pushing on the brain moves the brain within the skull.
This movement of the brain puts pressure on the area of the brain that controls things like heartbeat and breathing (medulla).
Pressure on the medulla causes Cushing's Triad, which is a slowing heartbeat while blood pressure increases and breathing becomes abnormal.
Vomiting often occurs, and as the bleed continues, something inside the skull produces pressure that moves brain tissues.
A person gets stiff with bent arms, clenched fists, and legs held out straight (decorticate posturing), followed by the arms and legs being held straight out, the toes being pointed downward, and the head and neck being arched backward (decerebrate posturing) if relief is not given.
It is important to recognize the difference between decorticate and decerebrate posturing.
It is important to recognize the differences between decorticate and decerebrate posturing.
An easy way to remember the differences is to picture the structure of the brain.
One part of the brain, the cerebral cortex, lies above another part of the brain, the cerebellum, so when a patient's arms point toward the face, he is pointing to his "core" (de-cor-ticate).
As the arms go down to his side, he is pointing to his cerebellum (de-cere-brate).
To treat the patient with a head injury, it is important to predict what might happen, and protect against other injuries that may not be realized until the patient gets to the hospital.
Neck injuries often happen with head injuries, and making sure the spine cannot move is required in all cases.
With the growing bruise on this patient's neck, damage to blood vessels was clear and helped lead to the belief of a spinal injury.
As the pressure in the brain rises, vomiting and seizures are common.
Putting in a breathing tube and having suction tools ready are the best ways to prevent material entering the airway or lungs by accident.
It is possible to angle the rescue board 10-15 degrees, making sure to not change the alignment of the patient's spine.
Seizures are usually treated with drugs that prevent convulsions, like Valium.
When a seizure happens with a head injury, it is caused by rising pressure in the brain, and Valium does not usually help, as the cause for the seizure is not resolved.
In this case, the patient had a full nerve block (paralyzed skeletal muscles). Any seizure would not have been seen while the paralyzing drugs were working.
Notifying the emergency department is very important, reporting everything the first responders see and do to treat the patient.
This can warn emergency staff and give them the chance to get specialized equipment ready (e.g., CT scanners, mechanical ventilators).
Also, think about how to get the patient to the hospital and how much time it will take to best care for the patient, including seeing a brain surgeon.
This patient needs to be seen in a trauma center able to do the most complete evaluation and treatment.
A medical helicopter may be the best way to get the patient to the hospital.
