What percent of blood loss shows the sign symptom of hypovolemic shocks begin?

Hypovolemic shock is a spectrum of reactions. In the early stages of hypovolemic shock, there is subtle pathophysiologic tissue insults. In the late stages of hypovolemic shock, there is multi-system organ dysfunction. Hypovolemic shock is due to volume loss with blood vessels or blood vascular system.
Timely detection of shock is important. Early interventions (treatments) decrease the chance of death. Intervention delays can make the same interventions ineffective.
Detection can be limited by monitoring, parameters, and vital signs that are used in the intensive care unit (ICU).
Most parameters barely change during the early stages. When the signs finally become abnormal, hypovolemic shock has already occurred.
The compensatory reserve (CR) is a parameter. It is a new model for assessing body function. CR represents all of the mechanisms or ways the body compensates for internal conditions that dysregulate blood flow to vital organs during hypovolemia.
When these mechanisms are overwhelmed, unstable blood pressure, and circulatory failure will follow.
Previous studies involving CR measurements have shown its use in detecting central blood volume loss before blood pressure parameters and vital signs changed.
CR measurements have also been used in clinical studies involving patients with traumatic injuries or bleeding. The results from these clinical studies have been promising.
CR measurements can be made at the bedside. They also provide a real-time assessment of blood flow.
There is a need for rapid diagnostics when treating critically ill patients. CR measurements would complement parameters that are currently being used.
The aim of this article is to introduce a conceptual framework where the CR represents a new approach to monitoring critically ill patients.
Within this framework, the authors present evidence to support the how the use of the CR could potentially improve the outcomes of ICU patients. CR could improve alerting doctors to impending hypovolemic shock before its onset.
