What percent of blood loss shows the sign symptom of hypovolemic shocks begin?

Etiology: Though most commonly thought of in the setting of trauma, there are numerous causes of hemorrhagic shock that span many systems.
Blunt or penetrating trauma is the most common cause, followed by upper and lower gastrointestinal sources.
Obstetrical, vascular, iatrogenic, and even urological sources have all been described.
Bleeding may be either external or internal.
A substantial amount of blood loss to the point of hemodynamic compromise may occur in the chest, abdomen, or retroperitoneum.
The thigh itself can hold up to 1 L to 2 L of blood.
Pathophysiology: Hemorrhagic shock is due to the depletion of intravascular volume through blood loss to the point of being unable to match the tissues demand for oxygen.
As a result, mitochondria are no longer able to sustain aerobic metabolism for the production of oxygen and switch to the less efficient anaerobic metabolism to meet the cellular demand for adenosine triphosphate.
In the latter process, pyruvate is produced and converted to lactic acid to regenerate nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) to maintain some degree of cellular respiration in the absence of oxygen.
The body compensates for volume loss by increasing heart rate and contractility, followed by baroreceptor activation resulting in sympathetic nervous system activation and peripheral vasoconstriction.
Typically, there is a slight increase in the diastolic blood pressure with narrowing of the pulse pressure.
As diastolic ventricular filling continues to decline and cardiac output decreases, systolic blood pressure drops.
Due to sympathetic nervous system activation, blood is diverted away from noncritical organs and tissues to preserve blood supply to vital organs such as the heart and brain.
While prolonging heart and brain function, this also leads to other tissues being further deprived of oxygen causing more lactic acid production and worsening acidosis.
This worsening acidosis along with hypoxemia, if left uncorrected, eventually causes the loss of peripheral vasoconstriction, worsening hemodynamic compromise, and death.
The body’s compensation varies by cardiopulmonary comorbidities, age, and vasoactive medications.
Due to these factors, heart rate and blood pressure responses are extremely variable and, therefore, cannot be relied upon as the sole means of diagnosis.
