What percent of blood loss shows the sign symptom of hypovolemic shocks begin?

Uncontrolled bleeding is the leading cause of shock in trauma patients. Delays in recognition and treatment have been linked to adverse outcomes.
For quick detection and management of hypovolemic shock, ATLS(®) suggests four shock classes. These classes are based upon vital signs and an estimated blood loss in percent. Hypovolemic shock is due to volume loss with blood vessels or blood vascular system.
Although this classification has been widely used, there is no clear evidence to fully support this classification.
In contrast, it has recently been shown that this classification may be associated with substantial deficits.
Evaluation of data derived from the TraumaRegister DGU(®) indicated only 9.3% of all trauma patients could be placed into one of the ATLS(®) shock classes when a combination of the three vital signs was assessed (measured).
Because of this, more than 90% of all trauma patients could not be classified according to the ATLS(®) classification of hypovolemic shock.
Further review included data from the UK-based TARN registry. This evaluation suggested that ATLS(®) may overestimate the degree of tachycardia (high heart rate) associated with low blood pressure and underestimate mental disability in the presence of hypovolemic shock.
This finding was independent from pre-hospital treatment and from the presence or absence of a severe traumatic brain injury.
The underlying trauma mechanism, or what caused the injury, had no influence on the number of patients who could be categorized.
Considering these potential gaps associated with the ATLS(®) classification of hypovolemic shock, an online survey was conducted. The survey assessed 383 European ATLS(®) course instructors and directors. The survey was completed to assess the understanding and confidence in this tool during daily clinical trauma care.
Less than half of all respondents declared that they would assess a potential circulatory depletion within the primary survey according to the ATLS(®) classification of hypovolemic shock.
Based on these observations, a critical reappraisal (revision) of the current ATLS(®) classification of hypovolemic is needed.
