What could possibly cause a cyst in the lower pole of the kidney?

In autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), an inherited disorder that causes cysts (growths) in the kidneys, cyst development and enlargement lead to end-stage kidney disease.
The recruitment of macrophage cells (a type of white blood cell that surrounds and kills microorganisms, removes dead cells, and activates other immune system cells) and spaces between the kidney becoming swollen are found to promote cyst growth.
TWEAK is a type of cytokine (chemical messenger) that regulates inflammatory (infection-fighting) responses, cell growth and division, and cell death. Its receptor Fn14 (TNFRSF12a) that sends and receives signals is expressed in macrophages and a layer of outer lining cells in the kidney called nephron epithelia.
To evaluate how the TWEAK cytokine signaling plays a role in cystic disease, researchers evaluate the Fn14 gene development in humans and in experiments with animals of ADPKD.
Researchers also looked at the response from cysts to the activation of TWEAK signaling as well as its limited signaling by injections.
Data published from animal studies of cystic disease show increases in mRNA (genetic strands with instructions to build proteins) of several parts of the TWEAK signaling pathway.
Researchers also found that too many TWEAK and Fn14 gene-derived molecules are in made in mouse ADPKD kidney cysts, and TWEAK is very high in the urine and cystic fluid from patients with ADPKD.
TWEAK use started formation of cysts and increased cystic growth, worsening physical traits in an animal ADPKD model.
Anti-TWEAK antibodies (a protein used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as harmful bacteria and viruses) significantly slowed the progression of ADPKD, protected kidney function, and improved survival.
Additionally, the reduction of cyst formation is related to decreased cell growth and a decrease in macrophage recruitment.
In conclusion, this study identifies the TWEAK signaling pathway as a new disease process involved in the growth and formation of many cysts and may lead to a new treatment approach in ADPKD.
