What does duloxetine do?

Antidepressant drugs, aside from treating depression, are also an important treatment for pain that comes from sensory nerve disorders.
However, we still don't know why antidepressants work for this type of pain.
This study examined mice with this type of pain to learn more.
We specifically examine the antidepressants duloxetine and amitriptyline. Duloxetine prevents the neurotransmitters serotonin and norepinephrine from being re-absorbed by cells, increasing the amount available. For relieving allodynia (where pain is felt instead of other sensations like touch), we found there are two different ways antidepressants can work. 
One way is short-term and involves the central nervous system.
The other way is long-term and involves the neurotransmitter noradrenalin coming from the sympathetic nervous system (which controls the "fight or flight" response) and opioid receptors (which opioid drugs act on).
We then studied the gene activation in clusters of nerve cells in the spinal cord. Results suggested that duloxetine acts on the peripheral nervous system by inhibiting the immune response following nerve injury.

We also compared the amount of duloxetine in the blood of the mice versus people. We found that the level of the drug in people was similar to the level in the mice being treated long-term.
This study shows that the immune system of the peripheral nervous system is important to how antidepressants provide long-term relief of pain that does not come from injury.
Antidepressant drugs, aside from treating depression, are also an important treatment for pain that comes from sensory nerve disorders.
However, we still don't know why antidepressants work for this type of pain.
In fact, studies done before clinical trials seemed to create contradictions in how they acted.
This study suggests that these apparent contradictions are actually because there are two different ways the drugs can work.
One way is quick and involves the connection of the brain to the spinal cord. The other way is delayed and involves suppression of nerve-related immune response when taking antidepressants long-term.
