Nephrotic syndrome what happens when gets bad?

Steroid Resistant Nephrotic Syndrome (SRNS) is a group of kidney-related symptoms that cannot be treated with steroids. Though it is not common in children, it is associated with many serious health problems.
Immune system suppressing drugs called Calcineurin Inhibitors (CNIs) are the preferred treatment for children with SRNS that is not inherited. However, some children do not respond to these drugs.
Another drug called Cyclophosphamide (CTX), given by IV, has been shown to be effective in Asian-Indian children with SRNS that is difficult to treat (SRNS-DTT).
Our study looked at the outcome of IV CTX treatment in North American children with this disease.
The study was a review of previous medical records of children with SRNS-DTT treated with IV CTX from January 2000 to July 2019 at our center.
From these records, we looked at demographics, kidney tissue samples, and the use of drugs to suppress the immune system. We also looked at notes from office visits and lab results recorded over time.
The main outcome that we measured was complete reversal of the disease.
We found that 8 children with SRNS-DTT were given monthly doses of IV CTX.
Four were completely cured, one was partially cured, and three did not respond to the treatment.
Three of the four patients that were cured had a particular type of SRNS that was caused by Minimal Change Disease (MCD).
Except for the one child who responded to treatment after the 4th dose, the average time to reverse the disease was about six and a half months after completing all the IV CTX doses.
Three of the patients are still cured at an average of 8 and a half years after completing the CTX treatment. One child had the disease come back and had to continue taking steroids indefinitely.
No infections or other life-threatening problems relating to IV CTX were seen.
In conclusion, in North American children, Cyclophosphamide (CTX) given by IV can completely cure SRNS that is difficult to treat and is caused by Minimal Change Disease (MCD).
