Nephrotic syndrome what happens when gets bad?

Minimal Change Nephrotic Syndrome (MCNS) is a kidney disease that can lead to a group of symptoms called Nephrotic Syndrome (NS). Not many studies have looked at the treatment and results of MCNS that starts in adulthood.
We looked at 125 patients from other studies that had MCNS appear as a late adolescent or adult.
We studied how the disease appeared, how long it was treated, and how patients responded to the treatment. We also studied further problems caused by the disease and treatment, as well as long-term outcomes. 
The type of this study is to look at various cases.
We looked at pathology reports from 1985 to 2011 from 10 participating health care centers. From these, we found patients 16 years or older with new NS and a diagnosis of MCNS confirmed by looking at tissue under a microscope.
The cases had a variety of outcomes: partial and complete reversal of the disease, resistance of the disease to treatment, the disease coming back, further problems caused by the disease, and how long the kidneys functioned.
Eighty-four percent of patients were given corticosteroids as an initial treatment.
After 16 weeks of corticosteroids, 88% of these patients were cured.
On average, time to reversing the disease was around 4 weeks.
Six percent of patients at first were given a cancer drug called cyclophosphamide, either with or without corticosteroids. All these patients were cured, in about 4 weeks on average.
Ten percent of patients were cured without drugs that suppress the immune system.
The disease returned at least once in 54% of patients that initially were given corticosteroids.
Cyclophosphamide used as a second-choice alternative drug cured 57% of the patients who had returning MCNS.
Forty percent of the patients had serious kidney damage.
Kidney function returned in almost every case.
Nine percent of patients had blood clots.
At the last follow-up, 90% of the patients still had the disease reversed and had functioning kidneys.
Three patients with steroid-resistant MCNS continued to kidney failure. The kidney failure came along with damage to the small structures of the kidney that were seen under a microscope.
This study is limited because we only looked at past patients and they were not all given the same treatments and dosages.
The first conclusion we can make is that most patients with MCNS that appeared as an adult or late adolescent were cured with corticosteroids. However, many had the disease come back.
In many of the patients for whom the disease came back, treatment with cyclophosphamide kept it from coming back again.
Significant health problems were seen from serious damage to the kidneys and other problems caused by the disease.
In a few patients, the disease continued to kidney failure, and this could be explained by damage to the small structures of the kidney.
