I have a cut on my arm and my fingers are sweating and i feel pain in my fingers. What can i do to stop the pain?

Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease where the immune system attacks healthy cells in the body by mistake. It can cause pain, decrease movement, lead to poor quality of life, impact the social and economic parts of communities, and cost over $56 billion in the United States every year.
Acupuncture involves pricking the skin or tissues with thin needles at key points in the body to reduce pain and is widely used. However, studies show problems in the methods used to measure acupuncture.
The aim of this current study is to evaluate the safety and the performance of acupuncture treatments on rheumatoid arthritis.
In this study, 105 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and a specific diagnosis were randomly assigned to either the acupuncture group, the sham acupuncture group (where the patient is pricked with thin needles but at different, less key points of the body), or a waiting list group. Each group had 35 patients.
The acupuncture groups (both normal and sham) experienced the exact same number, depth, and stimulation of needles.
A physical and visual exam of patients took place before and 5 minutes after acupuncture treatment with follow-up visits over 4 weeks.
Patients in the acupuncture group showed signficantly improved pain and pain sensitivity, hand grip and arm strength, as well as improved health status. Quality of life significantly improved in 7 out of 8 parts of a survey. The number of swollen joints and tender joints signficantly decreased.
In the sham acupuncture group (the group that received needle pricks but outside the key points of the body) did not have any significant changes in their condition except in pain improvement.
The waiting list group showed an overall worsening.
This is the first double-blind controlled study (where neither the patients nor the researcher knows which treatment participants are getting) on acupuncture for rheumatoid arthritis of the hand. The study shows positive effects supporting acupuncture's inclusion in other treatments for rheumatology (diseases in the joints, muscles, tendons, ligaments).
The site of the acupuncture needle is very important to determine acupuncture effectiveness.
Because the authors in this study clearly defined the placement of the acupuncture needles on the body, they reduced possible bias, showed how the placement of the needles affects the body, improved performance of acupuncture, and identified evidence to support use of acupuncture.
