I have a cut on my arm and my fingers are sweating and i feel pain in my fingers. What can i do to stop the pain?

Causes of finger pain are usually recognizable by past characteristics and findings from a physical checkup. However, radiographs (images created usually by x-rays) and other lab tests are usually required to support the identification.
Most minor causes of finger pain need only mild treatment, like restraining the finger from moving and exercise.
Causes of finger pain from bacteria include cellulitis (a bacterial skin infection), tendinitis (an irritation of the tendon), paronychia (a bacterial nail infection), felon (a bacterial fingertip infection), and emboli (a blood vessel blockage). These causes generally require antibacterials alomg with or without fluid drainage of the finger.
Some patients with finger pain from bacteria should be sent to a hand surgeon.
Causes of finger pain related to blood vessels represent real emergencies that depend on quick treatment.
When any nerve damage leads to finger pain, a pinched nerve in the wrist is usually the most common.
Full-body autoimmune diseases (diseases in which infection-preventing cells attack healthy cells), which may cause joint pain or irritation in the blood vessels, might start with finger pain.
Also, finger pain may be the first sign of a serious full-body illness, as in hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy, a rare disease with irritation around the bone and joints and enlarged fingertips.
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy (a disease causing long-lasting limb pain) is an example of pain felt in an area away from its source, possibly by nerve signaling issues.
Some bacteria-related, injury-related, and blood vessel-related causes of finger pain must be checked quickly to avoid serious harm. Depending on the cause, help from a hand surgeon, rheumatologist (a doctor who treats musculoskeletal issues), or neurologist (a doctor who treats nerve-related issues) may be needed.
Recovery may be quickened with occupational therapists that help patients perform everyday activities.
