Ratio of omega 6's to omega 3's; how important is it?

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a blood disorder with complex disease effects that includes lasting (chronic) hemolysis (red blood cell destruction), vaso-occlusion (blood flow blockage) and inflammation (infection-fighting processes).
Increased white blood cell-red blood cell-boundary cell interactions, due to increases expression of sticking molecules and activated boundary cells, are thought to play a main role in starting and developing of SCD vaso-occlusive events and organ damage.
Several new disease effect-based treatments for SCD are being developed, chiefly targeting the inflammatory pathways.
Omega-3 fatty acids are polyunsaturated fatty acids that are known to have effects on many biological processes.
Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) are the main biologically active omega-3 fatty acids.
The helpful effects of DHA and EPA on chronic inflammatory disorders and heart-related or cardiovascular diseases are well recognized.
The helpful effects of omega-3 fatty acids are linked to their anti-inflammatory and anti-thrombotic (blood clotting) eicosanoids (signaling molecules), and the new class of EPA and DHA derived fat level influencers: resolvins, protectins and maresins (other fatty-acid-related molecules).
Blood cell membranes or boundaries of patients with SCD have abnormal fatty acids composition characterized by high ratio of pro-inflammatory arachidonic acid (AA) to anti-inflammatory DHA and EPA (high omega-6/omega-3 ratio).
Also, experimental and clinical studies provide evidence that treatment with DHA does lead to improvement in blood cell deforming properties of sickle RBC, inflammation and hemolysis.
The clinical studies have shown improvements in vaso-occlusion crisis (VOC) rate, markers of inflammation, sticking molecules, and hemolysis.
In total, the results of studies on the helpful effects of omega-3 fatty acids in SCD provide a good body of evidence that omega-3 fatty acids could be a safe and effective treatment for SCD.
