I have a cut on my arm and my fingers are sweating and i feel pain in my fingers. What can i do to stop the pain?

Pain and a loss of feeling in the thumb, index finger, middle finger, and part of the ring finger may be a sign of carpal tunnel syndrome (pinched nerves in the wrist).
This syndrome and the pain, numbness, tingling, and weakness in the hand is caused by pressure on the main nerve at the front of the forearm as it travels through the carpal tunnel, a narrow passageway at the base of the hand that is made of ligaments and bone.
Guidelines from the May 2019 issue of Journal of Orthopaedic & Sports Physical Therapy, a scientific journal, make recommendations for evaluating, diagnosing, and treating carpal tunnel syndrome.
For patients, these guidelines outline the best rehabilitation treatment options (care that can help people regain, keep, or improve abilities needed for daily life) based on the scientific research.
Ultimately, the best care is a combination of three things: 1) the leading science, 2) the knowledge, experience, and skills of a patient's health care provider, and 3) the patient's own input.
These guidelines help inform the first step in that process.
Physical therapists are people who help injured or ill people improve movement and manage pain. They are well trained to help people with carpal tunnel syndrome.
Although some patients (anywhere from 28% to 62%) recover without treatment, others (from 32% to 58%) get worse.
A key to nonsurgical treatment shown to help those with carpal tunnel syndrome is the use of a night brace; a night brace should hold the wrist in a neutral position (where the joints are not being bent) and only be worn for short-term symptom relief.
For patients with mild to moderate carpal tunnel syndrome, stretching exercises and the night brace can help. Manual therapy (hands-on therapy without using a machine or device) of the neck and arms performed by a therapist can also help.
Education on the proper setup of computers, especially the mouse, and how hard patients should strike the keyboard may also help control symptoms of pain and loss of feeling.
Research shows that low-level laser therapy (a laser light used at a low level applied to the skin to reduce pain and help the body heal), thermal ultrasound (a device that provides heat to tissues to increase circulation and reduce pain), iontophoresis (a procedure that uses an electrical current to deliver medicine through the skin), and magnets provided no consistent benefit in treating carpal tunnel syndrome.
If nonsurgical treatment does not help, surgery may be needed.
A physical therapist can help guide a patient's recovery and decrease symptoms.
