I have a cut on my arm and my fingers are sweating and i feel pain in my fingers. What can i do to stop the pain?

Hand osteoarthritis is a problem that is associated with hand pain, stiffness, inability to perform normal functional movements, decreased grip strength, and reduced quality of life.
A nighttime orthosis is a device or brace worn at night that supports weak or damaged muscles and limits motion of the wrist. The objective of this study is to evaluate how helpful using nighttime orthoses on the second or third finger of the dominant hand is in controlling pain in women who have osteoarthritis in the hinge joint of the fingers.
This study used a randomized controlled trial, a type of study that randomly assigns participants to one of two groups: the intervention group that is receiving the treatment or the comparison group not receiving treatment.
The study took place in an outpatient clinic away from a hospital.
Fifty-two women with osteoarthritis and who also had bony bumps (also called nodes) on the finger joints closest to the fingernail and in the middle of the finger were randomly assigned to the intervention group or the comparison group.
The intervention group used a nighttime orthosis on the second or third finger of the dominant hand.
Both groups participated in an educational session.
The following were measured in both groups: pain (using a numbered scale), grip and pinch strength, function (measuring the ability to move and use the hand for daily activities), and manual performance (using a timed test that involves picking up, holding, and operating small objects).
The intervention group (group that used the orthoses) showed a significant improvement in pain and hand function.
The improvement in pain matched with measures of movement and the absence of nodes in the middle of the finger on the third finger.
This study shows that nighttime orthoses are effective in reducing pain and lead to improvement in hand function in women with hand osteoarthritis.
They are therefore specifically recommended for treatment of hand osteoarthritis that does not involve medications.
Orthoses can be considered, together with manual exercises and joint protection, as a way to reduce symptoms and improve hand function in people with hand osteoarthritis.
This study is an important step in helping occupational therapists (people who help patients with injuries, illnesses, and disabilities build or restore their abilities to perform the daily tasks of life) find appropriate and useful treatments for clients with osteoarthritis.
