I have a cut on my arm and my fingers are sweating and i feel pain in my fingers. What can i do to stop the pain?

This report presents a thorough review of the literature on common chronic pain conditions of the hand.
It briefly presents common conditions with their biological background, diagnosis, and common options to treat and manage pain.
The report also shows and compares the latest literature available for injection methods to treat these diagnoses and compares the available evidence.
Hand pain is a common condition occuring in 9.7% of men and 21.6% of women and can cause significant illness and disability.
It is also costly to the individuals and the healthcare system, totaling in $4 billion dollars in 2003.
Injection therapy (a treatment that involves inserting a needle into the skin to deliver medicine and reduce pain) is an option when other non-surgical treatments fail.
Osteoarthritis (the wearing down of flexible tissue at the end of bones) is the most common chronic hand pain condition and affects about 16% of the population.
There is disagreement on whether steroid injections are helpful to osteoarthritis.
Injections of hyaluronic acid (a natural lubricant that can relieve pain) appear to provide significant relief of pain and may increase movement.
More studies of hyaluronic acid are required before deciding how well it works.
Similarly, steroid injection to reduce a ganglion cyst (a swelling or bump on the wrist joint) may have little benefit.
Injection therapy provides only short-term relief for carpal tunnel syndrome (pinched nerves in the wrist).
While severe cases of hand pain may still require surgery, injection therapy may be an additional treatment step before surgery.
Similar treatments under US-guidance are effective for a condition called trigger finger where the finger gets locked in a bent position.
When the cause of the pain is inflammation (the body's response to injury or infection often causing swelling, pain, or redness), corticosteroid or steroid injections provide significant pain relief and increased movement.
Corticosteroid injections do not, however, change the course of disease.
Other conditions such as gout (a type of arthritis that causes sudden pain or swelling, often in the big toe) and De-Quervain tenosynovitis (pain in the tendons in the thumb) may get some benefit from corticosteroid injections.
Botox injections show encouraging results for Raynaud's phenomenon (spasms caused by slow blood flow in the fingers and other extremities), but more studies are needed to determine safety and how well the injections work.
Chronic hand pain is a common and serious condition, can cause significant illness and disability, and interferes with independence and the activities of daily living.
Careful, non-invasive treatment remains the first line of treatment; however, when first-line treatments fail, steroid injections can usually provide benefit.
In some cases, Hyaluronic acid or Botox may also be helpful.
US-guidance is expanding in hand injections and provides safer, more effective injections.
Hand surgery remains the alternative for pain that is not responding to multiple treatments.
