I have a cut on my arm and my fingers are sweating and i feel pain in my fingers. What can i do to stop the pain?

Pain and a loss of feeling in your thumb, index finger, middle finger, and part of your ring finger may be a sign of carpal tunnel syndrome.
This syndrome and the pain, numbness, tingling, and weakness in your hand that result from it are caused by pressure on the median nerve as it travels through the carpal tunnel.
Guidelines published in the May 2019 issue of JOSPT make recommendations, based on best practices from the published literature, for evaluating, diagnosing, and treating carpal tunnel syndrome.
For you as a patient, these guidelines outline the best rehabilitation treatment options based on the scientific research.
Ultimately, the best care is a combination of the leading science, the clinical expertise of your health care provider, and your input as the patient.
These guidelines help inform the first step in that process.
Practical Advice: Physical therapists are well trained to assess and evaluate people with carpal tunnel syndrome.
Although some patients (anywhere from 28% to 62%) recover without treatment, others (from 32% to 58%) get worse.
A key to nonsurgical treatment shown to help those with carpal tunnel syndrome is the use of a night brace; a night brace should hold your wrist in a neutral position and only be worn for short-term symptom relief.
If you have mild to moderate carpal tunnel syndrome, stretching exercises and the night brace can help, as can manual therapy of your cervical spine and upper extremity performed by a therapist.
Education on the proper setup of your computer, especially the mouse, and how hard you strike the keyboard may also help control your symptoms of pain and loss of feeling.
The literature review for these guidelines found that low-level laser therapy, thermal ultrasound, iontophoresis, and magnets provided no consistent benefit in treating carpal tunnel syndrome.
If nonsurgical treatment does not help, you may need surgery.
Your physical therapist can help guide your recovery, decreasing your symptoms.
