I have a cut on my arm and my fingers are sweating and i feel pain in my fingers. What can i do to stop the pain?

The objective of this case report (a summary of an individual patient's symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment) is to identify the sign or symptoms and causes of complex regional pain syndrome (a form of ongoing pain that affects the arm or leg) and if a pain treatment called stellate ganglion blockade (an injection of medication into nerves at the front of the neck that can relieve pain) has any effect on the pain.
Complex regional pain syndrome can occur in the arms or legs after a minor injury, fracture, surgery, or nerve damage. It appears as sudden, random pain, changes in skin temperatures and color, swelling in ankles, feet or legs, and uncontrollable movements in the body.
Disease-related physical changes are likely to involve outer and central parts, nerve-related elements, and inflammatory elements, the body's natural response to injury or infection.
There is no consistent approach to treatment with a wide variety of specialists involved.
Diagnosis can be difficult. Sometimes it is over-diagnosed (diagnosis of a medical condition that would never have caused any symptoms or problems) from too much attention on the pain even though other symptoms are not present. Sometimes it can be under-diagnosed (diagnosed less often than its occurrence) when less obvious symptioms are not recognized.
A professional medical association for the study of pain supports the kind of pain block used in stellate ganglion blockade to reduce sensory nerves and relieve pain sympoms.
Educational reviews promote stellate ganglion blockade as beneficial.
Three blocks (injections) were given at 8, 10 and 13 months after the initial injury under local anaesthesia and clean conditions.
Physical therapy was provided after the patient received an injection to allow more movement of the joint and tissues and to help restore use of the injured finger.
This case shows that healthcare providers need to be able to identify clinical signs of complex regional pain syndrome to start treatment immediately. It also shows that stellate ganglion blockade is a preferable method to an IV of local anaesthetic (one-time injection of medicine that numbs a small area of the body) in the upper arm to help finger pain associated with complex regional pain syndrome.
