I have a cut on my arm and my fingers are sweating and i feel pain in my fingers. What can i do to stop the pain?

The causes of finger pain can usually be found by learning about the duration and severity of the problem and doing a physical examination. However, x-rays and lab tests are often used to identify the cause of the pain.
Most minor traumatic injuries that cause finger pain only need non-invasive (no surgery) therapy, such as resting followed by exercise.
Finger pain caused by an infection (germs that build in the body causing illness) usually require medicines that fight bacteria called antibiotics. A process called drainage that removes extra fluid from a wound is sometimes used with antibiotics.
Sometimes patients with finger pain from an infection will see a hand surgeon.
Limited or no blood flow to or through the tissues in the finger can cause finger pain, are signs of a true emergency, and require immediate attention to prevent more damage to the tissues.
Patients with nerve damage may have finger pain. Carpal tunnel syndrome (pain or tingling in the hand or arm caused by a pinched wrist nerve) is a common example of pain caused by nerve damage.
Diseases that can cause your immune system to attack your joints, muscles, bones and organs (called systemic rheumatic diseases) can begin with finger pain.
In addition, finger pain may be the first sign of a more serious illness, such as in hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy (a rare disease with irritation around the bone and enlarged fingertips).
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy (a disease causing long-lasting pain in one or more limbs) is an example of when an injury in one part to the body causes pain in a different part of the body.
Certain infections, traumatic injuries, and blood flow problems that cause finger pain must be identified quickly to prevent long-term or more serious damage. In some cases, going to a hand surgeon, a rheumatologist (doctor who treats arthritis and other joint, muscle, and bone diseases), or a neurologist (brain and nerve doctor) is needed.
Progress in reducing pain and improving movement in the finger may come faster with the help of an occupational therapist, people who help patients with injuries, illnesses, and disabilities build or restore their abilities to do everyday tasks in life.
