How much physical therapy for knee replacement is needed?

Rehab, with an emphasis on physiotherapy and exercise, is widely promoted after total knee replacement.
However, how services are given varies in content and duration.
The aim of this study is to provide an updated summary of the research to evaluate how effective physiotherapy (PT) exercise is for patients that had knee replacements.
We searched several medical literature databases, up to October 4th, 2013, for studies of PT exercise in adults that had knee replacements.
The outcomes we looked at were: patient-reported pain and function, knee range of motion, and functional performance.
We contacted the researchers for missing data and outcomes.
We also looked at whether the study results could be misleading.

Our searches found 18 studies including 1,739 patients with total knee replacement.
The treatments that were compared were: PT exercise without care; home and outpatient care; pool and gym-based care; walking skills and more general PT; and general PT exercise with and without additional balance exercises or a stationary bike.
Compared with people with little or no PT, patients that got PT exercise had improved physical function at 3-4 months.
When considering only higher quality studies, there was a clear benefit up to 6 months.
There were no differences for outpatient PT exercise compared with home-based care in physical function or pain outcomes.
There was a short-term benefit in favor of home-based PT exercise for range of motion.
There were no differences in outcomes for pool-based care, or when additional balancing or cycling components were included.
In one study, a walking skills treatment plan was associated with a long-term improvement in walking performance.
However, for all these evaluations, studies did not have enough patients to be sure of their significance, even taken altogether.
In conclusion, after recently having knee replacement, care including PT and exercise improve physical function short-term.
However, this conclusion is based on a few small studies, and we found no long-term benefits of PT exercise.
Future research should focus on improving long-term function, pain and performance with larger studies.
