How much physical therapy for knee replacement is needed?

Complete knee replacement surgery alleviates pain, but muscle strength and function is reduced for a long period after the operation.
Our aim was to investigate whether Maximal Strength Training (MST) is more effective in improving muscle strength than standard rehab knee replacement.
This study involved two groups who randomly got either the standard care or the experimental care.
It was done in community physical therapy centers and a university hospital research department.
The study included 41 adults under 75 with arthritis in one knee and who were scheduled for knee replacement surgery.
Participants randomly got either supervised MST for the legs 3 times a week for 8 weeks and one physiotherapy session per week or the standard rehab, including physiotherapy sessions and/or telephone contact once a week and writing home exercise logs. The MST group had 21 patients, while the standard rehab group had 20 patients.
We measured maximum strength in leg press and knee extension, 6-minute walk test, patient-reported functional outcome score and pain. We looked at these 7 days after the operation, 10 weeks after, and 12 months after.
The MST group had 37% more strength in leg press and 43% more strength in knee extension at 10 weeks. These increases were higher than for the group that had standard rehab.
Strength differences continued up to the 12-month follow-ups.
At 12 months, both groups recovered to normal levels in the 6-Minute Walk Test, with no significant difference between the groups.
In conclusion, participants getting Maximal Strength Training (MST) had better increases in leg press and knee extension muscle strength compared to those who had standard rehab, as measured at 7-day to 10-week follow-ups after surgery.
The difference in muscle strength was maintained at 12-month follow-up.
No differences in functional performance were found at any point.
The impact of this on clinical rehab is that exercises after knee replacement should be done with high intensity and should target the operated leg specifically.
