How much physical therapy for knee replacement is needed?

Knee replacement is one of the most common types of surgery that people choose to have worldwide.
Recently, doctors have tried to make big improvements in outcomes, especially during the rehab process.
Even though there are lots of ways to do rehab, doctors have not figured out the best strategy.
Because of this, we will focus on rating different rehab strategies that are in published papers.
Specifically, we will look at how studies were done, which rehab methods they used, and what the measured outcomes were. We will do this for rehab strategies for people that had knee replacement in the last 5 years.
We searched several databases of biomedical literature for studies that looked at rehab strategies after knee replacement.
Out of more than 11,000 from our search, 70 met our criteria for including them.
After considering relevance and removing duplicates, we were left with 20 studies.

We found that Continuous Passive Motion (CPM), where a device moves the leg for the patient, and inpatient rehab may not provide any benefit to the patient or the healthcare system.
However, early rehab, tele-rehab, where providers interact with patients remotely using the internet, and outpatient therapy may be successful types of rehab. Exercise at high intensity and high speeds may also be successful types of rehab.
One method that seems to help as a supplement is “weight-bearing biofeedback,” where the patient puts some weight on the joint while wearing sensors to ensure it is not too much. Electrical stimulation of the muscles and balancing exercises also appear to be helpful supplements to typical rehab methods.
Rehab after knee replacement surgery helps patients recover and improves their quality of life.
This article looked at published rehab strategies used in the last 5 years.
Some studies did not accurately describe standard rehab methods, duration of therapy sessions, and the timing of these sessions.
Studies done in the future should be more explicit about their methods.
This will let doctors know what the methods are and evaluate them.
