How to heal a pressure wound on the ear?

Pressure ulcers, also known as bed sores, pressure sores, or decubitus ulcers develop because of a localized (regionalized) injury to the skin or underlying tissue, or both.
The ulcers usually occur in  a bony area of the body. Ulcers are recognized as a common medical problem affecting people confined to a bed or wheelchair for long periods of time.
Anabolic (muscle building) steroids are used as off-label drugs. This means they are often used without doctor approval. They have been used to increase healing alongside usual treatment with dressings, debridement (removal of damaged tissue from a wound), nutritional supplements, systemic antibiotics (full-body medicines that fight infection) and antiseptics (antimicrobial skin medication). All of these measures are considered to be supportive in pressure ulcer healing.
Anabolic steroids are considered because of their ability to encourage protein synthesis and build muscle mass.
Thorough evidence is required to encourage decision making in regards to the benefits and harms of using anabolic steroids.
The goal of this study is to evaluate the effects of anabolic steroids for treating pressure ulcers.
The review contains a medical trial of 212 participants, all with spinal cord injury and open pressure ulcers classed as stage III and IV.
The participants were mainly male with an average age of 58.4 years in the group receiving oxandrolone (synthetic steroid) treatment. Participants were all male with an average age of 57.3 years in the placebo group. Placebos are harmless pills used as control treatments.
This trial compared oxandrolone (20 mg/day, administered orally) with placebo treatment. This study reported data on complete healing of ulcers and adverse side effects.
There was very low-certainty evidence on the relative effect of oxandrolone on complete ulcer healing at the end of a 24-week treatment period.
Therefore, it is unclear if oxandrolone improves or reduces the complete healing of pressure ulcers.
There was low-certainty evidence on the risk of non-serious adverse events reported in participants treated with oxandrolone compared with placebo.
Treatment with oxandrolone may increase the risk of non-serious negative side events reported in participants.
There was very low-certainty evidence on the risk of serious adverse events reported in participants treated with oxandrolone compared with placebo.
Five serious adverse events were reported in the oxandrolone-treated group. However, none were classed by the trial teams as being related to treatment.
It is unclear if oxandrolone increases or decreases the risk of serious adverse events.
Secondary outcomes were not reported in the included trial. Secondary outcomes include pain, length of hospital stay, change in wound size or wound surface area, incidence of different type of infection, cost of treatment, and quality of life.
Overall the evidence in this study was of very low quality. This is due to lack of precision (low confidence in results) and indirectness (only males were evaluated) in data.
The trial was stopped early when deeper investigation showed that oxandrolone had no benefit over the placebo for improving ulcer healing.
The authors concluded there is no high quality evidence to support the use of anabolic steroids in treating pressure ulcers.
Further well-designed, low-bias trials in several different facilities are needed to assess (measure) the effect of anabolic steroids on treating pressure ulcers. However, careful consideration of the current trial and its early termination are required when planning future research.
