How to heal a pressure wound on the ear?

Mark wearing is now present everywhere. This is because of the COVID-19 pandemic (a global, viral, respiratory illness). Mask wearing has increased medical device-related pressure injuries, or skin sores, in persons that have higher chances of their skin breaking down.
The ear has a unique structure that is more vulnerable to injury from pressure.
Right now is a time of mandatory personal protective equipment requirements in healthcare facilities. Continual wear of personal protective equipment requires care for and assessment (evaluation) of the skin of the ear.
This study presents a case of a pressure injury on the ear. This study will also review the anatomy of the ear and provide strategies for assessment and treatment of pressure injuries of the ear.
When treating a mask-related pressure injury, you first begin by removing the mask.
If the patient continues to require a mask, provide a mask or “ear saver” mask strap that secures around the head or back of the neck rather than the ear. However, providing an "ear saver" does not remove the need for continued monitoring of the skin areas that undergo continued pressure.
Infection should be considered and ruled out.
Local cellulitis (bacterial skin infection) is characterized by warmth, redness, pain, and swelling.
Presence of pus might indicate a deeper infection and/or abscess (swollen area with pus).
If there is signs of infection, treatment should be initiated with topical treatment (applied directly to the skin) and/or systemic antibiotics (drugs that affect the whole body). Treatment method chosen will depend on the skin health and severity of infection.
Removing hair in the area may be helpful. This may be helpful as it eliminates things that may stray into the wound. Additionally, hair is a source of contamination.
It is important to understand that a healed wound may not have the same physical strength as normal tissue. Additionally, healed skin may be vulnerable to reoccurring injuries, also known as recidivism.
