How to heal a pressure wound on the ear?

Pectin-based films are wrapping that is made from pectin, a substance extracted from ripe fruits. Pectin-based films are biodegradable and biocompatible. Additionally, the films are non-toxic, are pH (acid-base) sensitive, and have gelling activity. These qualities make the films of interest in wound dressing.
In order to improve how the films responsd to stress and strain, specifically how the material holds up when wet, other biopolymers could be mixed with the pectin-based films. Biopolymers are substances that are found within living organisms, just like pectin is found in fruit.
The aim of this study was the prepare hydrocolloid (gel-forming) films using a pectin and starch blend with extracts from two different leaves. The film was made to have a controlled release of bioactive compounds and healing properties. Bioactive compounds are components of food that influence biological or cellular activity within humans or animals that eat them.
The hydrocolloid films were tested for their tensile strength (resistance to tension breakage), water uptake, and polyphenolic release profile in wet environments. Polyphenols are compounds with various biological properties, including anti-inflammatory (anti-swelling and -redness from an infection) and antioxidant.
The skin anti-inflammatory activity of the hydrocolloid films was assessed (measured) by a test evaluating inflammation on a mouse ear.
The wound healing property of the hydrocolloid films was explored in a rat model. The wound healing property was also explored in a human clinical trial looking at lower back pressure ulcers (skin sores).
The films showed an adequate water-uptake capacity between 100-160%.
The release of active compounds from the hydrocolloid films followed the Korsmeyer-Peppas equation, which implies that release of healing properties was controlled over time.
The mechanical properties of the hydrocolloid films, or how they respond to stress, were not affected by the plant extracts.
Addition of the same bioactive extracts in a carbohydrate-based film significantly decreased the topical edematous response or the accumulation of watery fluid.
Applying the loaded hydrocolloid film on the pressure ulcer completely closed the wound after 17 days without any negative side effects.
The study concluded that a novel (new) hydrocolloid mixture was produced from starch and pectin. This mixture showed suitable chemical-physical properties to act as a carrier of plant extracts with wound healing properties.
