Why do i have to constantly clear my throat and cough up flem?

Researcher studied the range of signs and symptoms to find out the causes of chronic cough.
A total of 103 patients with chronic cough for at least 8 weeks and normal chest X-rays were studied from a hospital outpatient clinic in China.
The causes of the chronic cough were studied using well established rules and guidelines.
The diagnostic tests included: medical history, physical exam, lung function tests, sputum cell counts, esophagus acid test, CAT scan of sinuses or chest, and looking into the nose or lungs with the endoscope.
The final diagnosis of the cause of chronic cough was made based on all of these tests plus how patients responded to treatment.
The results were compared with patients studied before in another city in China.
The cause of chronic cough was found in about 95% of patients. About 83% had one cause, about 13% had 2 causes, and about 3% had 3 causes.
The most important causes of chronic cough were (most to least): cough variant asthma (CVA), inflammation of the nose (rhinitis) and/or sinuses (sinusitis), gastroesophageal reflux (GERC), medicine related, inflammation of airways (eosinophilic bronchitis -EB), allergies, and unknown cause.
Other lung and heart diseases caused chronic cough in a small number of patients
Nighttime cough occurred the most in CVA than the other diseases.
CVA was associated with nose allergy (atopic rhinitis) which changed with the seasons and increased in autumn.
GERC was associated with daytime cough, cough with eating, and with reflux.
Productive cough occurred more in rhinnitis and/or sinusitis.
There were more patients with CVA and GERC in this study than in the study before in another city. But there were less patients with EB and allergic cough in this study.
The most common causes of chronic cough in this study were CVA, rhinitis and/or sinusitis, GERC, medicine related, EB, and allergy related. This was different from studies done before in other cities.
The range of signs and symptoms of chronic cough are important in order to find out the causes.
