I have had a kidney stone in for almost three years. It’s killing me and none even noticed it till now, even on ultrasound, how will it be taken out?

New advanced technology for breaking up stones in the kidney and the tube to the bladder changes the nature of issues after operation.
Among them, the main issues are inflammatory infections.
This influences the search for new, improved ways of breaking up stones to avoid small fragments and spreading stone-associated infection in the kidney and bladder system.
We have created a method for controlled breaking up of stones with a special laser with a hot-spot at one end.
This study evaluates the effectiveness of controlled breaking up of stones in urine using a special laser with a hot-spot at one end to prevent inflammatory infections in clinics.
We analyzed 1666 patient cases of patients with kidney stones who had operations to remove the stones in the kidney and urine. We also analyzed any complications in 90 patients who had treatment with various devices to break up stones: sound waves, pressurized air, and lasers.
The method of controlled breaking up of stones with a special laser with a hot-spot was tested on 26 kidney stone samples collected after surgery.
For the first time in clinical practice, this method was tested in the hole in the bladder of 10 patients.
In the group that had a small cut to remove kidney stones, infections and inflammatory issues after surgery occured in 34.1% of cases. In the group that had a cut and small tube to remove stones, infections and issues occured in 24.6%. In the group that had a small cut to remove stones in the urine, infections and issues occured in 7.8%. In the group that had a cut and tube to remove stones, infections and issues occured in 2.5%.
The analysis helped identify factors that promoted infectious and inflammatory issues.
For the first time in clinical practice, there were 10 successful operations of breaking up stones with a special laser with a hot-spot.
Controlled breaking up of stones, which may reduce the number of infectious and inflammatory effects, was done in the bladder to test the method.
The method of using a laser with a hot-spot to break up stones, developed and tested in clinical practice, may prevent infectious and inflammatory effects in patients with possibly infected stones since their previous stone fragmentation. This method may also prevent spread of stone-associated toxins and bacteria in the urinary system.
