I have had a kidney stone in for almost three years. It’s killing me and none even noticed it till now, even on ultrasound, how will it be taken out?

Two common ways to treat kidney stones are: the Mini-Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy (M-PCNL), which is when a doctor makes a small incision in the patient and uses a scope to remove kidney stones, and Retrograde Intrarenal Surgery (RIRS), a procedure that uses a laser and a viewing tube to remove kidney stones and does not make an external incision.
The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness and safety of M-PCNL and RIRS in kidney stone treatment in patients over 50 years old.
A total of 125 patients, 65 who had RIRS, and 60 who had M-PCNL, are included in the study.
Age, gender, BMI (Body-Mass Index), ASA (American Society of Anesthesiology) scores of the patients; stone size, stone location, operation side, having extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy or ESWL procedure in the past, HU (Hounsfield Unit) values to measure the density of stones, length of hospital stays, stone-free rates, complication rates, blood loss after the procedure, transfusions needed after the procedure, and patients who needed a second operation are recorded.
Stone-free rates are calculated 3 months and 6 months after the procedure.
The data between the RIRS and M-PCNL groups have similar characteristics in age, gender, BMI, HU, stone size, operation side, stone location, ESWL history, operation time, transfusion rates needed after the procedure, and complications after the procedure.
When the ASA categories are evaluated to determine the risk of surgery before the procedure, the average ASA scores, ASA I, and ASA II data had similar characteristics in both groups.
When the ASA 3 scores are evaluated, the number of ASA III patients in the RIRS group is statistically significantly (the result is unlikely to be random or by chance) higher.
When hospital stay duration and blood loss after surgery are examined, the RIRS group is found to be beneficial.
The stone-free rate at the 3rd and 6th months after surgery are statistically significantly higher in the M-PCNL group.
M-PCNL and RIRS are methods that can be used safely and effectively in patients over 50 years old who need kidney stone surgery.
M-PCNL is found to be more advantageous in terms of stone-free rates, and it requires less secondary interventions, such as a second procedure.
RIRS is beneficial in terms of short hospital stays, blood loss after surgery, and applicability to patients who are not suitable for the prone position when patients are face down on the stomach.
