I have had a kidney stone in for almost three years. It’s killing me and none even noticed it till now, even on ultrasound, how will it be taken out?

Spinal anesthesia (SA) are medicines that numbs the back of patients to reduce pain after surgery. However, most urologists (doctors who specialize in conditions of the urinary or urine-related tract) use general anesthesia that puts a patient into a heavy sleep when doing a flexible ureterorenoscopy (fURS), a procedure that uses a telescope, and occasionally a laser, to break stones in the kidney into pieces.
The objective of this study is to provide technical details, results, complications, and patients' satisfaction with fURS when performed under only spinal anesthesia to numb only parts of the body.
Researchers analyzed all flexible ureterorenoscopy (fURS) done under spinal anesthesia to treat kidney stones from March 2011 to February 2017.
Details of the technique, how long the procedure takes, results, need for additional treatments, complications, and patients' satisfaction are evaluated.
There are 234 fURS procedures done under spinal anesthesia considered.
SA was done in a certain area of the lower spine in 64.1%.
Patients are sent home the same day of surgery.
The average stone burden was 13.5 millimeters (± 6.6 millimeters), and the average procedure time is 76.9 minutes ( ± 34.6 minutes).
The percentage of patients who are stone free after one procedure is 69.7%.
Additional treatments are done in 22.8% of patients. Overall, 96.6% had no anesthesia-related complications.
No complications that required general anesthesia or other major complications are noticed.
99.6% of patients are satisfied with spinal anesthesia.
No cases of changing from spinal anesthesia to general anesthesia occurred.
In conclusion, flexible ureterorenoscopy (fURS)can be performed safely and efficiently under spinal anesthesia when accounting for a few details of the procedure.
Patients' satisfaction with spinal anesthesia is very high, and complications are rare.
Although spinal anesthesia is usually used in unfit patients for general anesthesia, it may be considered as a good alternative in fit patients.
