At what strength is prozac usually begun for a patient changing from another antidepressant?

Continuing treatment with antidepressants after patients have responded to medication has been shown to greatly reduce the risk of relapse, which is when a medical condition that had previously improved starts to worsen. However, the risk of a relapse is not completely eliminated.
A number of theories have been suggested to account for this possible decline in how well antidepressant medicines work.
A common first approach to help a patient who is relapsing is to increase the dose of the antidepressant medicine.
Researchers evaluated the chance patients will respond to an increase in the dose of fluoxetine (a type of antidepressant also called prozac) in patients relapsing during a long-term study of two different dosing plans of fluoxetine.
Patients who have major depressive disorder are treated for 13 weeks with 20 mg/day of fluoxetine in a large US study.
The 501 patients who responded to the medicine are randomly put into either the group receiving 20 mg/day of fluoxetine, the group receiving sham treatment that has the appearance of the drug but is not the real medicine, or 90 mg of fluoxetine weekly. They will be in these groups for 25 weeks during a part of the study called the continuation phase.
If the patients relapse during the continuation phase, they are offered a different 25-week treatment plan called a rescue phase where the study medication dose is increased as 1) patients on placebo will restart fluoxetine at 20 mg/day, 2) patients on fluoxetine 20 mg/day will have their dose increased to 40 mg/day, and 3) patients on the 90-mg weekly dose will have their dose increased to 90-mg twice a week.
The results of the rescue phase the patients in group 2 (who received 20 mg/day) and group 3 (who received the 90-mg weekly).
Researchers used scoring tools that measure depression severity and seeing how much the depression scores are reduced since the time of the last relapse.
Additional analyses to evaluate how well the medicine worked include changes in these scoring tools from the start of the study to the end.
Safety checks include assessment of unexpected side effects, vital signs (e.g. blood pressure, temperature), and tests done in a lab.
Overall, patients relapsing during the continuation treatment phase responded to an increased dose (57% of the 40-mg-daily group and 72% of the 90-mg-twice-weekly group).
The average score of the tool that measure depression severity decreased and was maintained for up to 6 months in the people who responded.
There are 35 patients who either did not respond or responded at first but then relapsed after increasing medication.
In conclusion, patients who relapsed after first responding to fluoxetine can benefit from an increase in the dose amount of fluoxetine.
These results also generally support increasing the dose as a first-line treatment plan for a patient who has relapsed while taking a previously effective dose of an antidepressant.
Increasing fluoxetine 90 mg once weekly to twice weekly appears to have side effects that patients can handle and is just as effective in restoring response as when daily fluoxetine dose is increased from 20 mg to 40 mg.
