What bp meds should not be taken if person has mthfr genetic variant?

Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is a critical folate (specific vitamin)-metabolizing enzyme which requires riboflavin as its co-factor. Co-factors are needed for enzymes, catalysts for chemical reactions in the body, to complete their roles.
A common variation (677C→T) in the MTHFR gene results in reduced MTHFR activity. This can caused impaired folate metabolism and increased homocysteine concentrations. Homocysteine is a chemical your body produces to help make proteins.
Individuals can inherit the same form of a gene from both parents. When this occurs, a person has homozygosity. Homozygosity for this genetic variation (TT genotype) is associated with an increased risk of a number of conditions. These conditions include heart disease and stroke. However, there is a large amount of variability or differences in the extent of excess risk in various reports.
The study aimed to explore the evidence available that supports this genetic variation increasing the risk for several adverse or bad health outcomes. Additionally, the study aimed to explore the evidence of how B-vitamins can help alleviate or lessen disease risk.
There is strong evidence that links the genetic variation (TT genotype) with hypertension (hig blood pressure) and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, particularly preeclampsia.
Furthermore, high blood pressure was found to be highly responsive to or affected by riboflavin intervention or treatment specifically in individuals with the MTHFR 677TT genotype.
Future intervention studies aimed at genetically predisposed or genetically risky individuals are required to further understand this gene-nutrient interaction.
This genetic variation has also been associated with an increased risk of neural tube defects (NTD), brain-related damage, and other adverse pregnancy outcomes. However, the evidence on this subject has been inconsistent.
Initial evidence has suggested there may be a greater need for women with MTHFR 677TT genotype to take folic acid prior to conception (or having a baby) for the prevention of NTD. However, this idea requires further investigation.
