What bp meds should not be taken if person has mthfr genetic variant?

Hypertension, also known as high blood pressure, is a major risk factor for heart disease and stroke. Hypertension is the world's leading cause of preventable, premature death.
A common genetic variation or gene change (677C→T) is found in the gene that codes the folate (specific vitamin) metabolizing (digesting) enzyme methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR). 677C→T is associated with increased blood pressure. There is accumulating evidence that shows this event can be altered, especially in people with MTHFR 677TT genotype, by the B-vitamin riboflavin. Riboflavin is an essential co-factor, meaning it is needed for a biological process to be completed, for MTHFR.
The underlying mechanism that links this genetic variation or gene differences, and the related gene-nutrient interaction, with hypertension is currently unknown.
Previous research has shown that the product produced by the biological reaction caused by MTHFR is a positive modulator (increases activity) of a specific enzyme. The enzyme is known as endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), which helps fight blood vessel disease. The product of MTHFR, known as 5-methyltetrahydrofolate, may increase the production of nitric oxide, a potent vasodilator. Vasodilators widen blood vessels, which decreases blood pressure.
Blood pressure follows a circadian rhythm (a 24 hour cycle), peaking shortly after wakening and falling during the night. This process is known as 'dipping'.
Any change in this pattern, which can only be identified using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM), has been associated with increased cardiovascular (or heart-related) disease (CVD) risk.
This review will consider the evidence linking this genetic variation and new gene-nutrient interaction with hypertension. This paper will also investigate the potential mechanisms that might be involved.
The role of ABPM in B-vitamin research and in nutrition research generally will also be reviewed.
