What bp meds should not be taken if person has mthfr genetic variant?

Increased blood levels of homocysteine, a specific chemical, may be a risk factor for high blood pressure.
A specific mutation in DNA (C677T) encoding methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), a protein that transforms homocysteine, greatly influences hyperhomocysteinemia, or high blood levels of homocysteine. This condition results in damage to cells that line the heart and blood vessels.
Blood pressure medication called angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors seem to repair damage to cells lining the heart and blood vessels and restore blood vessel widening.
The co-existence of varied DNA for drug-digesting enzymes, targets, target sites, and transporters may affect drug effect.
This study investigates if short-term blood pressure control by benazepril, an ACE inhibitor, was affected by variation in the DNA sequence for the C667T MTHFR gene.
444 patients with high blood pressure, aged 27 to 65 years, without any high blood pressure therapy within 2 weeks were included.
All of them swallowed benazepril at a single daily fixed dose of 10 mg for 15 consecutive days.
Blood pressures were measured at start and on the 16th day of treatment.
Among them, the gene sequence for MTHFR C677T varied.
Diastolic blood pressure at the start and end were much higher for patients with a certain DNA sequence for the MTHFR C677T gene than patients with two other DNA sequences.
We then divided all patients into 3 groups based on the distribution of blood pressure readings at the study's end.
Compared to those with the lowest blood pressure measurements, the chances of having a certain DNA sequence for the MTHFR C667T gene among those with the highest blood pressure readings was 2.6 times higher.
However, systolic blood pressure at the start and end was not linked to DNA sequences.
DNA sequence variation for the MTHFR C667T gene affects diastolic blood pressure at the study's start and end in Chinese essential patients with high blood pressure.
