What bp meds should not be taken if person has mthfr genetic variant?

Research has linked a specific a genetic variation or gene change, known as 677C→T, within the gene encoding methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR - a blood-pressure-related protein) with hypertension (high blood pressure). Limited evidence has shown that taking riboflavin, which is a co-factor or helper of MTHFR, can lower blood pressure (BP) in hypertensive patients with the variant MTHFR 677TT genotype.
This study investigated the impact of the common genetic variation on BP throughout adulthood. They hypothesized that riboflavin status would alter the genetic risk of hypertension.
Observational data on 6076 adults of 18-102 years were drawn from the Joint Irish Nutrigenomics Organization project, comprising the Trinity-Ulster Department of Agriculture (TUDA; volunteer sample) and the National Adult Nutrition Survey (NANS; population-based sample) cohorts or groups.
Participants were recruited from the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland (UK) in 2008-2012 using standard methods.
The genetic variant MTHFR 677TT genotype was identified in 12% of recruited adults.
In patients 18 to 70 years old, this genotype was associated with an increased risk of hypertension.
Low or deficient levels of riboflavin increased the genetic risk of hypertension. Participants with 677TT genotype and a riboflavin deficiency have a 3-fold higher risk of developing hypertension.
In participants up to 65 years, the authors observed poorer BP control rates on antihypertensive treatment in participants with the TT genotype compared to participants with other genotypes (CC or CT).
The study concluded the MTHFR 677TT genotype is associated with higher BP independently of homocysteine levels. Homocysteine is a chemical your body produces to help make proteins. Additionally, the MTHFR 677TT genotype makes people more likely to have an increased risk of hypertension and poorer BP control with antihypertensive treatment. Better riboflavin status was associated with a reduced genetic risk for hypertension.
Riboflavin administration or use may offer a personalized or unique approach to prevent the onset or start of hypertension in adults with the TT genotype. However, this requires more researched in non-hypertensive adults.
