What bp meds should not be taken if person has mthfr genetic variant?

This study represents an analysis on the China Stroke Primary Prevention Trial (CSPPT). Individual variation in total homocysteine (tHcy)-lowering response was measured after an average of 4.5 years of 0.8 mg daily folic acid (or specific vitamin) therapy. Homocysteine is a chemical your body produces to help make proteins. This study was completed in Chinese hypertensive (high blood pressure) adults. This study evaluated effect modification by methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T genotypes (a person's specific gene type for a specific protein) and serum or blood folate (derivative of folic acid) levels.
The study included 16,413 participants from the CSPPT study. The participants were randomly assigned to 2 double-blind treatment groups. Double-blind indicates the study participants were not told which treatment group they were apart of. The participants received either 10-mg enalapril (common blood pressure medication) +0.8-mg folic acid or 10-mg enalapril daily. The participants had individual measurements of serum folate and tHcy levels at baseline (before study) and exit (end of study) visits and MTHFR C677T genotypes.
Average baseline tHcy levels were similar between the 2 treatment groups.
After 4.5 years of treatment, mean or average tHcy levels were reduced in the enalapril+folic acid group, but almost stayed the same in the enalapril group.
However, tHcy lowering varied by MTHFR genotypes and serum folate levels.
Participants with a specific MTHFR genotype (TT) required higher folate levels to eliminate the differences in tHcy between them and the other two genotypes (CC and CT).
The study concluded that the TT genotype group showed that as folate levels increased, tHcy levels decreased. However, this difference in tHcy between the genotype groups was removed when plasma or blood folate levels reached ≈15 ng/mL or higher.
This study suggests to tailor folic acid therapy by MTHFR genotype and folate status.
