Does phosphatidylserine support memory in people with me/cfs?

This is a comprehensive literature review of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS).
We provide a description of the background, etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, and management regarding CFS.
CFS is a multifaceted illness that has many symptoms and a wide array of clinical presentations.
As of recent, CFS has been merged with myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME).
Much of the difficulty in its management has stemmed from a lack of a concrete understanding of its etiology and pathogenesis.
There is a potential association between dysfunction of the autoimmune, neuroendocrine, or autonomic nervous systems and the development of CFS.
Possible triggering events, such as infections followed by an immune dysregulation resulting have also been proposed.
In fact, ME/CFS was first described following Epstein Barr virus (EBV) infections, but it was later determined that it was not always preceded by EBV infection.
Patient diagnosed with CFS have shown a noticeably earlier activation of anaerobic metabolism as a source of energy, which is suggestive of impaired oxygen consumption.
The differential diagnoses range from tick-borne illnesses to psychiatric disorders to thyroid gland dysfunction.
Given the many overlapping symptoms of CFS with other illnesses makes diagnosing it far from an easy task.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) considers it a diagnosing of exclusion, stating that self-reported fatigue for at minimum of six months and four of the following symptoms are necessary for a proper diagnosis: memory problems, sore throat, post-exertion malaise, tender cervical or axillary lymph nodes, myalgia, multi-joint pain, headaches, and troubled sleep.
In turn, management of CFS is just as difficult.
Treatment ranges from conservative, such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and antidepressants, to minimally invasive management.
Minimally invasive management involving ranscutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation of target points has demonstrated significant improvement in fatigue and associated symptoms in a 2017 randomized controlled study.
The understanding of CFS is evolving before us as we continue to learn more about it.
As further reliable studies are conducted, providing a better grasp of what the syndrome encompasses, we will be able to improve our diagnosis and management of it.
