To treat abnormal ketones result of pregnant woman what food should be eaten?

Group 1 (All Types of CHO) The intervention followed the American Dietetic Association nutrition practice guidelines for gestational diabetes.
Women received an individual food plan based on CHO restriction (40–45% of TEI), using a CHO counting strategy (basic level).
Moderate energy restriction was recommended only for overweight and obese women (24 kcal/kg).
Breakfast CHO intake was limited to 15–30 g, and adequate fiber intake was promoted (20–35 g/day).
Women in this group were advised to choose any type of CHO, except added refined sugars.
Energy and CHO prescriptions were revised at every visit and changes were done according to weight gain and whether or not ketonuria was present.
If ketones were present and weight gain was subnormal, energy prescription was increased (200 to 300 kcal/day).
If weight gain was adequate, energy was not modified and carbohydrates were increased (no more than 45% of TEI).
Fat intake recommendation was maintained (<40% of TEI), and protein recommendation adjustment was made accordingly (20–25% of TEI).
Group 2 (Low GI CHO) Women in this group received the same intervention as women in Group 1, but were counseled to eliminate all moderate and high GI foods (GI > 55).
Tropical fruits, refined breads, breakfast cereals, flour tortilla, white rice, refined cookies and pastries, potatoes, carrots, beets, and refined sugars were eliminated from their plan.
Papaya was the only moderate GI fruit permitted because it is one of the most frequently consumed high-fiber foods in this population.
Corn tortillas were included only when combined with beans, as well as corn flakes combined with milk, according to some evidence that the combination of these foods decreases their GI.
Conclusions. Inclusion of low GI CHO as part of a comprehensive nutrition intervention is equally effective in improving glycemic control as compared to all types of CHO.
This strategy had a positive effect in preventing excessive maternal weight gain but increased the risk of prematurity.
