To treat abnormal ketones result of pregnant woman what food should be eaten?

The aim of this study is to measure ketonemia (amount of ketones, a substance that the body makes if cells don't get enough blood sugar, in the body) in a control (comparison) population of pregnant women and in a population of women with gestational diabetes (women diagnosed with diabetes for the first time during pregnancy).
This study also aims to define normal ketonemia levels for the comparison group and to determine whether or not this level could play a role in the care of women with gestational diabetes.
This study included 56 women with normal oral glucose tolerance test results (a test that measures how the body moves sugar from blood to the tissues).
Women in the comparison group agreed to monitor glycaemia (blood sugar levels) and ketonemia themselves 3 times a day.
In addition, women with gestational diabetes were asked to measure their blood glucose after a meal.
Glycaemia and ketonemia measurements are performed using a small finger stick device.
Study participants keep a 24-hour food diary twice a week.
The average ketonemia is lower in the comparison group than in the gestational diabetes group.
Ketonemia values measured before the midday meal and before the evening meal are lower for the comparison group than for patients with gestational diabetes.
Fasting (no food) ketonemia is unrelated to ketonuria (high amounts of ketones in the urine) in the gestational diabetes group, whereas there is a connection in the comparison group.
At least one chronic (recurring) increase in ketonemia levels is observed in 47% of the women with gestational diabetes, compared with only 12% in the comparison group.
The lowest levels of evening glycaemia correlated with the highest levels of ketonemia; women with gestational diabetes reported lower food and carbohydrate intakes than the comparison group.
In conclusion, this work has established ketonemia standards in pregnant women who do not have diabetes.
If ketonemia does indicate overly restrictive dietary behavior, this measure could be used for monitoring how well people stick to the nutritional recommendations for gestational diabetes.
