To treat abnormal ketones result of pregnant woman what food should be eaten?

The objective of this study is to determine whether time of day, the interval after a standard meal, and maternal body mass (body fat based on height and weight) influence the amount of blood sugar in women with gestational diabetes mellitus (a type of diabetes first seen during pregnancy in a woman who did not have diabetes before pregnancy).
Identical mixed meals are given on 2 separate occasions 1 week apart to 30 women with gestational diabetes being treated by diet and who are pregnant.
One meal is given at 7 am (morning meal) and the second meal is given at 9 pm (evening meal), each after a fast (no food) of 5 or more hours.
The order of the meals (morning first versus evening first) is assigned randomly.
Based on body mass index, 16 of the women are considered overweight, and 14 women are lean.
Blood sugar from the vein, insulin (a hormone in the body that allows cells in the muscles, fat, and liver to absorb sugar that is in the blood), free fatty acids (lipids from fats and oils that are a source of energy for the body), beta-hydroxybutyrate (a chemical in the body that provides energy when not enough carbohydrates or sugars have been eaten), and bound and free cortisol (a stress hormone that is bound to proteins or free in the blood) are measured hourly for 9 hours after each of the test meals.
When all women are measured together, blood sugar after the morning meal is much greater at 1 hour, are not different at 2 hours, and are much lower 3 through 9 hours after the meal than measurements taken at the same times after the evening meal.
The chemical beta-hydroxybutyrate and free fatty acid levels are higher between 5 and 9 hours after the morning meal than at the same times after the evening meal.
Levels of the stress hormone cortisol are higher for the first 7 hours after the morning meal, reflecting known daily variation in cortisol concentrations.
Overweight patients' blood sugar levels are much greater than those of lean patients during the last 4 hours of the overnight fast.
In conclusion, among women with gestational diabetes, the blood sugar levels are much higher from 3 to 9 hours after an evening meal, whereas slowing or stopping free fatty acid and beta-hydroxybutyrate use is less stable after a morning meal.
The process causing these differences remain to be found but may involve daily influences of hormones that increase blood sugar.
The relationships between measurements of blood sugar in pregnant women and maternal and perinatal (before and after birth) outcomes in pregnancies complicated by gestational diabetes may be cleared up by creating a standard time to fast and by developing meal-specific maternal blood sugar levels to aim to reach before and after meals for these patients.
