To treat abnormal ketones result of pregnant woman what food should be eaten?

How much caloric restriction (reducing the amount of calories consumed) will improve glycemic status (blood sugar levels) but increase ketone bodies (substances that the body makes if the cells don't get enough blood sugar) in gestational diabetic women (women diagnosed with diabetes for the first time during pregnancy) has received little attention.
Data are presented on two studies that monitor and control diets to investigate these questions.
In the first study, a diet of 2,400 calories per day is provided to 12 gestational diabetic women for 1 week.
In the second week, patients were randomly assigned to either continue the 2,400 calories per day diet or to a 1,200 calories per day diet.
The average glucose (blood sugar) levels remained unchanged in the 2,400 calorie diet group but declined in the lower calorie group that had a 1,200 calories per day diet.
After fasting (no food) for 9 hours overnight, insulin (a hormone in the body that allows cells in the muscles, fat, and liver to absorb sugar that is in the blood) also declined, but oral glucose tolerance (a test that measures how the body moves sugar from blood to the tissues) did not improve with the reduced calories diet.
Beta-hydroxybutyrate (a chemical in the body that provides energy when not enough carbohydrates or sugars have been eaten) increased in the reduced calorie group, along with an increase in ketonuria, high amounts of ketones (substances that your body makes if your cells don't get enough blood sugar) in the urine, but not in the comparison group that had the 2,400 calorie diet.
A second study compared the impact of a calorie-restricted diet reduced by 33% or insulin to a full-calorie diet in a similar 2 week experiment. The study measured liver production of sugar and insulin sensitivity with labeled glucose before and during an insulin clamp (used to maintain glucose levels).
Diet in 3 patients improved fasting and average glucose levels. Prophylactic insulin (insulin administered to the patient) in 3 people also produced smaller reductions.
On average, ketonuria after a 9 hour fast declined in the same amount with both treatments.
Liver glucose production and insulin sensitivity were not significantly changed by gestational diabetes or the treatments compared to normal weight or obese pregnant women who did not have diabetes.
In conclusion, reducing calories by half improves blood sugar levels in obese women with gestational diabetes but is connected with an increase in high amounts of ketones in the urine, which is of uncertain significance.
Reducing calories by 33% (to 1,600 - 1,800 calories daily) may be better in diet management of obese women with gestational diabetes mellitus and more effective than prophylactic insulin.
More studies are required to confirm these results.
