What level of gene expression from transcription to protein does turner syndrome impact?

The disease development of Turner syndrome (TS), and how gene expression effects physical appearance, has been heavily investigated over the last decade. Turner syndrome is a condition where there is an abnormal amount of chromosomes (genetic material).
Phenotype (observable characteristics) seen in TS does not only depend on the number of copies of a gene as a result of X chromosome monosomy. Monosomy indicates there is an absence of one member of a chromosome pair; instead of 46 chromosomes in each cell of the body, there is 45.
The origin of TS specific comorbidities (presence of two or more diseases) may depend on crosstalk between genes as well as factors affecting gene expression. These comorbidities include infertility, heart-related malformations, defective bone development, and autoimmune diseases (in which immune cells attack healthy cells).
Furthermore, two people with TS with the exact same karyotype, number and visual appear of chromosomes, may exhibit completely different traits. This suggests that no conventional genotype-phenotype relationship exists.
This study reviews the different genetic mechanisms behind differential (function-unique) gene expression. This study also highlights potential key-genes essential to the comorbidities seen in TS and other X chromosome aneuploidy (abnormal chromosome number) syndromes.
KDM6A, a gene important for germ cell development, has shown to be differentially expressed and methylated in Turner and Klinefelter syndrome (male born with extra X chromosome copy) patients.
Furthermore, TIMP1/TIMP3 genes seem to affect the prevalence (amount) of bicuspid aortic valve, an abnormality in the aortic valve of the heart.
KDM5 C could play a role in the brain- and memory-related development of Turner and Klinefelter syndrome.
However, further research is needed to determine the genetic mechanism behind the phenotypic variability and the different phenotypic traits seen in TS.
