How to heal a pressure wound on the ear?

Pressure ulcers (skin sores) are a common and serious problem. Pressure ulcers mainly occur among elderly persons who are confined to bed or chair.
Additional reasons pressure ulcers develop include cerebrovascular accident (damage to the brain and its blood vessels) or impaired nutritional intake (poor diet). Additionally, reasons include urinary or fecal incontinence (lack of control on bladder or bowels), hypoalbuminemia (low blood albumin - a protein in the blood), and previous fracture.
Implementation of preventive measures significantly reduce pressure ulcer incidence (frequency). The measures include in-depth assessment of mobility, relieving pressure on the injured area, and evaluating nutritional status and urinary incontinence.
If the pressure ulcer is a partial thickness (stage II) wound, the factors causing the injury are probably friction or moisture.
If the ulcer is full thickness (stage III and IV), it is secondary to (caused by) pressure or shearing forces.
The wound becoming infected is the most common complication in the management approach.
Osteomyelitis, or a bone infection, is not an uncommon occurrence. It must be ruled out in all full thickness pressure ulcers.
Removal of dead tissue by surgery is necessary prior to further treatment and assessments (measurements).
Taking antibiotics (which fight bacteria) is used if there is evidence of infection.
Topical (applied on skin) medicines may be used to prevent or treat infection. However, these medicines must be used carefully to avoid adverse effects (bad side effects) like wound toxicity, allergic reaction, and development of resistant pathogens, or harmful foreign organisms.
Proper use of air- and water-tight medical wrappings increase patient comfort, enhance healing, decrease the possibility of infection, save time, and reduce costs.
A patient presenting an ulcer that does not improve or, because of its size, will take a great deal of time to heal should be evaluated for surgical closure.
