How to heal a pressure wound on the ear?

A pressure ulcer is an injury to the skin or underlying tissue, usually over a bony portion of the body, caused by unrelieved pressure.
Factors that make someone more likely to have a pressure ulcer are classified as intrinsic (internal factors) or extrinsic (external factors). Intrinsic factors include limited mobility, poor nutrition, comorbidities, or aging skin. Extrinsic factors include pressure, friction, shear (vertical force), or moisture.
There are several preventative protocols for pressure ulcers that can be used. These protocols include identifying at-risk persons and implementing specific prevention measures. Preventative measures include repositioning patients on a schedule, keeping hospital beds at a low and safe elevation to prevent shear, using pressure-reducing surfaces, and assessing (measuring) nutrition and providing supplementation.
When an ulcer occurs, wound assessment is needed. When assessing each ulcer, there are several factors that need to be identified. These include ulcer size, location, dead or irregular tissue, discharge, odor, sinus tracts (channels in the skin), wound edge erosion or edge removal, infection, and appropriate staging (I through IV).
Treatment involves managing local and spreading infections, removal of dead tissue, maintenance of a moist environment for wound healing, and possibly surgery.
Debridement, or removal of damaged tissue from a wound, is indicated when necrotic or dead tissue is present.
Urgent sharp debridement should be performed if advancing skin or bleed infection occurs.
Mechanical (surgery), enzymatic (chemical agents), and autolytic debridement (body's natural defense system) methods are nonurgent treatments.
Wound cleansing, preferably with normal saline (salt water) and appropriate dressings, is common for treatment for clean ulcers and after removal of damaged skin.
Bacterial load, or the amount of bacteria within the body, can be managed with cleansing.
Topical antibiotics are bacterial-fighting medicines applied to the skin. They should be considered if there is no improvement in healing after 14 days.
Systemic antibiotics are medicines normally taken in pill form that effects the whole body. These are used in patients with advancing deep skin infection, bone infection, or whole body infection.
