Does anastrozole causes hair loss & dry patches in your scalp?

The study's importance is based on the fact that endocrine therapy-induced alopecia (EIA) (hair loss or thinning from hormonal therapy) has been mentioned but not measured.
The study's objective is to describe EIA thoroughly in patients with breast cancer.
The study's design is a study of 112 patients with breast cancer, diagnosed with EIA from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2016. The patients were examined at a skin center in a large, specialized hospital and professional cancer center.
The study's main variables included common hospital measures, hair-loss- or hair-thinning-related quality of life (QoL), and reaction to minoxidil (hair regrowth medication) of EIA in patients with breast cancer.
We used data from the Hairdex Questionnaire (a questionnaire for disease-specific quality of life measurements) to measure the impact of hair loss or thinning (alopecia) on patients QoL.
Higher scores indicate lower QoL (0-100 score).
The success of minoxidil was measured at 3 or 6 months by an investigator unaware of the treatment groups through standard photographs of the scalp.
112 female patients with breast cancer were included. Their median age was 60 years with a range from 34-90 years.
104 patients (93%) had standard photographs. Of these, 59 patients (53%) had images from special hair and scalp evaluations at the start. 46 patients (41%) were measured for response to minoxidil.
Alopecia was linked to aromatase inhibitors in 75 patients (67%) and tamoxifen (estrogen-influencing medication) in 37 (33%).
Severity was low in 96 of 104 patients (92%). The pattern was similar to common, receding hair loss.
The most common scalp and hair-related feature at the start were peach fuzz and mid- and thick, long hairs on the scalp.
QoL was negatively reported, especially in the emotional part of life.
After treatment with minoxidil on the skin, medium or noticeable improvement in hair loss and thinning was seen in 37 of 46 patients (80%).
In conclusion, hormonal therapies are linked with commonly-seen hair loss and thinning, similar to agents that actively cause alopecia.
Despite mostly mild alopecia, QoL was negatively impacted for patients.
