How to treat a bakers cyst?

 Popliteal cysts, or Baker's cysts, are abnormal enlargements of the bursa (a protective fluid-filled sac) behind the knee. This study aimed to compare drainage of popliteal cysts by arthroscopy (minimally-invasive surgery using fine instruments) alone or in combination with cyst wall removal (resection) in terms of clinical outcomes.
Forty-two consecutive patients with symptomatic popliteal cysts received arthroscopic treatment.
Specifically, 20 of these patients received arthroscopic internal drainage (AI group) alone and 22 received arthroscopic internal drainage combined with cyst wall resection (AICR group) through two small holes, or portals, made in the middle side of their knees (double posteromedial portals).
The patients underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)  to observe if these cysts re-appeared or recurred.
We assigned scores to patients to quantitatively asses their clinical outcomes.
Patients were re-examined during a follow-up period of 12-48 months. The median follow-up exam time was 24 months after the surgery.
Results: The two groups (AI group and AICR group) were similar in age, gender, cyst diameter, associated joint disorder, preoperative scores, and follow-up period.
Relative to the AI group, the AICR group had a significantly prolonged operation time and a higher incidence of complications.
Pre-operative and post-operative knee assessment scores differed signficantly in both groups, but there were no differences between the two groups at the last follow-up.
According to the MRI results, the cyst disappeared in 11 (55%), shrank in size in 6 (30%) and existed in 3 (15%) patients in the AI group. In the AICR group, the cyst was absent in 18 (81.8%) and shrank in size in 4 (18.2%) patients in, suggesting a significant difference between these two treatment groups.
Conclusion: Additional resection of cyst wall (AICR) can result in a lower recurrence rate of cysts but extend the operation time and increase the incidence of perioperative complications compared with arthroscopic internal drainage (AI) of popliteal cysts alone.
