What happens wen you don't get enough vitamin b6?

There are several B vitamins: folic acid, B12 and B6 and B2. They are important in one carbon metabolism of protein and DNA metabolism.
Here, one carbon unit is transferred from an amino acid (building blocks of proteins) by a B vitamin, tetrahydrofolate (THF), to form a new chemical, methylene-THF.
Methylene-THF is used  in the synthesis of DNA,  RNA, or in the metabolism of important amino acids (such as the reaction that changes one amino acid, homocysteine, to another amino acid, methionine).
Much of the methionine which is formed is made into S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) and then used in the metabolism of DNA, RNA, hormones, neurotransmitters (nerve impulse chemicals), cell lipids (fats), proteins and others.
Because of these functions, interest in recent years has been growing particularly in the area of aging. The possibility that certain diseases associated with aging  such as the loss of thinking, Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, cancer and others, may be in part explained by inadequate intake or inadequate amounts in the body of these vitamins.
Homocysteine, an amino acid that is both needed to make methionine as well as made from methionine metabolism was shown recently to be a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, stroke and blood clots  when its amount in blood is slightly elevated.
Facts now show association between increased blood levels of homocysteine and loss of brain function and Alzheimer's disease.
These associations could be due to harmful effects of homocysteine on the nervous system or on the decreased amount of SAM in the brain.
Problems with methionine metabolism are also thought to increase depressive tendency in people.These problems with methionine and DNA metabolism are also thought to be the link between the relationship seen between low levels of vitamin B folate and colorectal cancer.
Many factors(reasons) contribute to the fact that the amount of these vitamins in the elderly is inadequate.
One factor is not having enough acid in the stomach (achlorhydria). This decreases the amount of  vitamin B12 your stomach can absorb from food. Other factors include socioeconomic and habits.
We need more studies to prove that these vitamins have important functions in the causes of these diseases.
We also need to prove iif these diseases can be prevented or lessened by proper nutrition starting at a younger age.
