I have lupus. What can i do to stop it?

Because treatment options in advanced systematic lupus erythematosus (lupus - when your immune system attacks healthy cells) are limited, there is an urgent need for new and effective treatment alternatives for selected cases with severe disease.
Bortezomib (BTZ) is a specific, reversible drug that stops the function of the protein complex called proteasome that breaks down unneeded or damaged proteins.
This study reports the effectiveness and safety of all patients receiving BTZ for lupus in Sweden during 2014-2020.
Eight females and 4 males are included with an average disease duration of 8.8 years when BZT is started.
Kidney involvement was the main target for BTZ.
Reduction of global disease activity is recorded by decreasing scores over time of the Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI-2K) that tracks disease activity and remained significantly reduced at the 6-month and the 12-month follow-up visits.
From BTZ initiation, levels of a protein that supports the immune system called complement protein 3 (C3) increased significantly after the 2nd treatment cycle, the 6-month, and the 12-month follow-up visits.
The urine test showing albumin protein in urine declined over time and reduced significantly at the 6-month and the 12-month follow-up visits.
The presence of certain antibodies (infecting-fighting molecules) related to lupus is observed.
Six out of 12 patients experienced at least one side-effect during follow-up, the most common adverse events are infections.
Tests to measure safety, including blood cell counts, mainly remained stable over time.
In conclusion, researchers found beneficial effects of BTZ when used in combination with corticosteroids (an anti-inflammatory drug also known as steroids) in most patients with severe lupus who do not respond to the standard treatments.
Reduction of proteinuria (elevated protein in urine) was observed over time as well as changes to specific antibodies.
In most patients, the side effects were tolerable but mild adverse events were not uncommon.
Special attention should be paid to infections and low levels of antibodies.
