Why do blood sugars become elevated in the afternoon?

Endogenous glucocorticoid excess (Cushing's syndrome) is caused when the body has too much of the stress hormone cortisol over a long period of time. It increases the level of blood sugar concentration up to 4 hours after eating a meal.
The pattern of hyperglycemia (high blood sugar) caused by prednisolone, a steroid drug made to act like the cortisol hormone, has not been well described.
The objective of this study is to define the 24 hour effect of prednisolone on blood sugar concentration to help manage hyperglycemia brought about by prednisolone.
This study takes place in a teaching hospital.
Participants include 60 people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a lung disease making it difficult to breathe, admitted to the hospital and placed into groups. Thirteen participants (group 1) without known diabetes are admitted for other problems and not treated with glucocorticoids, drugs used to fight inflammation (effects of infection-fighting). Forty participants without known diabetes are admitted with an extreme COPD and treated with prednisolone (group 2). Seven participants with known diabetes are treated with prednisolone (group 3).
Interstitial glucose concentration is taken from the fluid surrounding the cells of tissues rather the blood and is assessed (measured) during continuous glucose monitoring that regularly check sugar levels.
Significantly more participants in group 2 and group 3 recorded a glucose of at least 200 mg/dl during continuous glucose monitoring than in group 1.
The average glucose concentration between midnight and noon (2400-1200 hours) for group 3 is much greater than in the other two groups, whereas the average glucose concentrations between midnight and noon (2400-1200 hours) in group 1 and group 2 are not significantly different.
In contrast, the average glucose concentrations between noon and midnight (1200-2400 hours) for group 2 and group 3 ae both much greater than group 1.
Prednisolone mainly causes hyperglycemia in the afternoon and evening.
Treatment of hyperglycemia that is brought on by prednisolone should be targeted at this time period.
