Why do blood sugars become elevated in the afternoon?

To date, nutritional studies have focused on the total amount of dietary fiber consumed rather than when the fiber was consumed.
In this study, researchers examine the effect of the timing of daily ingestion of Jerusalem artichoke (sunroot, Helianthus tuberosus) on blood sugar levels after meals and at 24 hours, as well as on gut bacteria in older adults.
In total, 37 healthy older adults (age = 74.9 ± 0.8 years) are recruited.
The participants are randomly assigned to either a morning group (18 participants) or an evening group (17 participants).
The morning group is instructed to take Jerusalem artichoke powder just before breakfast, and the evening group to take it just before dinner. Each group took the powder for 1 week.
The blood sugar levels of all participants are monitored using a continuous blood sugar monitoring system throughout the 2 weeks.
The gut bacteria is analyzed from feces (poop) before and after participants consumed the Jerusalem artichoke.
There are no significant differences in the physical characteristics or the amount of calories consumed between groups.
Consuming Jerusalem artichoke leads to decreases in tissue blood sugar levels throughout the day in both groups.
As a result of examining the changes in tissue blood glucose levels up to 4 hours after each meal, big decreases in the overall exposure to the Jerusalem artichoke in the body is observed for all three meals after intervention (treatment), but only in the morning group.
On the other hand, in the evening group, there is a strong decrease in the overall exposure to the plant after dinner, but only slight decreases after breakfast and lunch.
Additionally, the rate of change in the max tissue blood sugar level at breakfast is significantly decreased in the morning group compared to the evening group.
A greater decrease is observed in the change in the blood sugar level after the ingestion of Jerusalem artichoke in the morning group than in the evening group.
Furthermore, the relative abundance of a gut bacteria that can break down fiber called Ruminococcus in the morning group is much higher at the start of the study than in the evening group, and it is also much lower after the study.
The findings suggest that consuming Jerusalem artichoke in the morning might have relatively stronger effects on the gut bacteria and slow post-meal blood sugar levels to a greater extent than when taken in the evening.
