Do i keep a pressure sore covered and moist and what kind of ointment to use?

Pressure ulcers, or bedsores, decubitus ulcers and pressure injuries are restricted areas of injury to the skin or underlying body tissue, or both.
Dressings (ointment or gauze to cover wounds) are widely used to treat pressure ulcers and promote healing. THere are many varied dressings to choose from.
Skin-level agents also have been used as alternatives to dressings for healing.
A clear and current overview of all the evidence is required to help make decisions regarding using dressings or skin-level agents to treat pressure ulcers.
This review would ideally help those with pressure ulcers and health professionals choose treatments.
This review is a study which assesses the probability of complete ulcer healing associated with alternative dressings and skin-level treatments.
We included 51 studies (2947 participants) in this review and analyzed the treatments solely to measure the probability of complete healing.
The study included 21 different treatments (13 dressings, 6 skin-level treatments, and 2 additional linking treatments). It included data from 39 studies in 2127 participants, of whom 783 had completely healed wounds.
We judged the study network to be scattered. Overall, there were few participants, with few events, both for number of treatments and mixed treatment analysis. Most studies were small or very small.
The effect of this sparseness is low reliability in the evidence. This, along with the (mainly) high risk of bias (or prejudice) in the studies, means we judged the majority of evidence to be low or very low quality.
We have no confidence in the results regarding the rank order of treatments in this review (very low-quality evidence), but we report a summary of results for some comparisons of treatments compared with standard gauze.
We present here only results from evidence we did not consdier to be very low quality, but the reported results should be interpreted while knowing of the very low quality regarding the whole study network.
It is not clear if treatments with special protein-breakdown dressings increase the probability of pressure ulcer healing compared with standard gauze.
102 more people were healed with special protein-breakdown dressings per 1000 people than those with standard gauze alone.
It is unclear if any of the other treatments examined increase the probability of healing compared with standard gauze (low-quality evidence). Some showed metrics consistent with a clinically important benefit and harm. Others had a high risk of bias and unreliability.
A large analysis of data from 39 studies (examining 21 dressings and skin-level agents for pressure ulcers) is scattered. The evidence is also of low or very low quality (due to risk of bias and unreliability).
Therefore, we are unable to determine which dressings or skin-level agents are best to heal pressure ulcers. It is unclear whether the treatments are more effective than standard gauze.
More research is needed to tell if certain dressings or skin-level agents improve the chance of healing for pressure ulcers.
This analysis is uninformative regarding which treatments may best be included in a large trial. It may that research is focused on prevention, leaving clinicians to decide which treatment to use based on wound symptoms, clinical experience, patient preference and cost.
