Do i keep a pressure sore covered and moist and what kind of ointment to use?

We aim to describe the use of clostridial collagenase ointment (CCO - a medication with special proteins) and medical honey to remove damaged tissue in hospitals among bedsore patients and compare how often CCO- and medical honey-treated patients return to the hospital.
We obtained hospital discharge records from a national database for patients getting CCO or medical honey methods of removing damaged tissues with an official diagnosis of bedsores.
We used statistical models to compare how often patients who did and did not stay at least one night in the hospital returned to the hospital up to 6 months after bedsore treatment with either CCO or medical honey.
We looked at 48,267 and 2,599 patients with bedsores treated with CCO or medicine honeys who did and did not stay at least one night at the hospital, respectively.
CCO and medical honeys made up 44,725 (93%) and 3,542 (7%), respectively, of people who stayed at least one night in the hospital.
CCO and medical honeys made up 1,826 (70%) and 773 (30%), respectively, of people who did not stay a night in the hospital.
Based on models, patients treated with CCO were less likely to be readmitted to the hospital after being admitted, and to return to the hospital but not stay a night after either going to the hospital and staying or not staying at least one night over the following 6 months.
Study limitations included not considering why patients were hospitalized or why they returned to the hospital.
Even though we took into account differences in many population, clinical, and hospital characteristics between the treatments, the study population may have not been completely random.
We conclude that bedsore patients treated with CCO returned to the hospital less often than those treated with medical honey.
These results based on real-world data help us better understand treatment characteristics of bedsore patients related with these two days to remove damaged tissue and connect to method costs related to short-term care.
