What are prevention suggestions and strategies pertaining to postpartum depression?

Post-partum depression (depression after childbirth) is a serious mood disorder in women that might be triggered by changes in reproductive hormones during the period of time around pregnancy.
This research study examined the drug, brexanolone (formerly SAGE-547 injection). Brexanolone is a naturally occurring reproductive steroid hormone that affects receptors in the brain and nervous system.  It is used as an IV medicine for the treatment of post-partum depression.
Researchers studied female inpatients who gave birth within 6 months of the study with severe post-partum depression (in four hospitals in the USA. The severity of depression was checked by the questionnaire-Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression [HAM-D].
Eligible women received either one, continuous IV dose of brexanolone for 60 hours or a placebo (a procedure that appears like the real treatment but has no treatment value). The women were chosen at random by a computer program to receive the real treatment or the placebo.
Both patients and researchers did not know who received the real treatment and who received the placebo.
The most important outcome was the change in the HAM-D score between the start of the study and at 60 hours .
Patients were followed up until for 30 days.
This study (trial) is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02614547.
This trial was done between Dec 15, 2015 (first enrolment), and May 19, 2016 (final visit of the last enrolled patient).
21 women were randomly assigned to the brexanolone (10 women) and placebo (11 women) groups.
At 60 hours, the average decrease in the depression score by the HAM-D questionnaire was 21 points in the brexanolone group (compared to the score at the start of the study).  In the placebo group, the HAM-D score only decreased by an average of 8.8 points.
No deaths, serious adverse (harmful) events, or stopping of the procedures because of adverse events were reported in either group.
Four of ten patients in the brexanolone group had adverse events compared with eight of 11 in the placebo group.
The most frequently reported adverse events in the brexanolone group were dizziness (two patients in the brexanolone group vs three patients in the placebo group) and sleepiness (two vs none).
Other adverse events reported in two patients in the brexanolone group were fast heart rate and sleepiness. Two patients in the placebo group had adverse events; pain at the IV site and tension headache. One patient in the placebo group had a severe treatment adverse event (insomnia).
In women with severe post-partum depression, brexanolone IV resulted in a significant and clinically meaningful reduction in HAM-D total score of depression, compared with placebo.
Our results support the reasons for focusing on GABAA receptors in order to development therapies for patients with post-partum depression.
A major clinical program for the study of brexanolone in patients with post-partum depression is in progress.
