What are prevention suggestions and strategies pertaining to postpartum depression?

Nearly 20% of mothers will experience an episode of major or minor depression within the first 3 months after childbirth (postpartum depression). This shows it is the most common complication of childbearing.
Many times postpartum depression (PPD) is not treated adequately. Because people planning to become mothers are especially motivated for self-care, focusing on preventing PPD brings hope for the best outcome.
This research reviews the accepted ways to prevent PPD.
A search of articles written about ways to prevent PPD was done using the PubMed search engine.
The search only included published articles, written in English, that were evaluated by experts in the same field as the authors.  These articles were on studies about the psychology, biology (bodily function), and social aspects of PPD.
This search found 88 studies. Only 45 of them met the rules to be included in this research.
Of the 45 studies that were included, 8 studies were about biological treatments, and 37 were about psychological or social treatments.
Of these 45 studies, 20 studies showed good effects from the treatment and 25 studies showed no effect from the treatment.
The studies were very different in how they recognized and treated PPD. There were also differences in the people studied and how the findings were measured.
Anti-depressants and nutrients showed the best proof of treatment success in the biological studies.
Of the psychological and psychosocial studies, 13 out of 17 successful studies focused on mothers at risk for PPD. Interpersonal therapy showed success in 4 out of 7 studies. Two small studies showed a tendency toward success also.
Currently,there are many different ways to prevent PPD. Researchers cannot pinpoint one approach that is better than others.
Clinical trials (studies in people) that focus on at-risk populations and clinical trials of interpersonal therapy seem to hold the most hope for further study.
