What medications are used to treat tardive dyskinesia?

We aimed to summarize the characteristics, how well it works, and safety of vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (VMAT-2) inhibitors, drugs that reduce dopamine (a chemical messenger released when your brain is expecting a reward), for treating tardive dyskinesia (TD) - a movement disorder.
We searched for published scientific studies, including studies that summarized other studies, used statistics to combine results from other studies, or randomly assigned participants to groups receiving TD treatment or sugar pills that looked at how well treatments worked and safety of VMAT-2 inhibitors (tetrabenazine, deutetrabenazine, and valbenazine) in patients with TD.
We used statistical methods to determine how well treatments work and safety results across multiple studies.
We used statistical methods to combine results from two 12-week studies with deutetrabenazine 12-48 mg/day (413 patients) and four 4-6 week studies with valbenazine 12.5-100 mg/day (488 patients). No high-quality data were available for tetrabenazine for a similar analysis.
Results favored deutetrabenazine and valbenazine over sugar pills in scores on a rating scale that measures involuntary movements (AIMS).
The percentage of patients who had 50% reduction in scores on the same rating scale (AIMS) favored deutetrabenazine and valbenazine over sugar pills.
Results were less consistent using another rating scale done by patients and doctors for deutetrabenazine and by doctors for valbenazine.
In one study of deutetrabenazine and one study of valbenazine, the percentage of patients who had a 50% reduction in scores on the AIMS rating scale went up over time.
Effects of stopping valbenazine were studied, showing TD symptoms returning to levels before stopping valbenazine within 4 weeks of stopping the drug.
No increased unfavorable and unintended effects were observed in studies where participants continued to take the studied drug compared to sugar pills.
We conclude that the 2 VMAT-2 inhibitors, valbenazine and deutetrabenazine, work to treat TD, both in the short- and long-term, without causing increased risk of depression or suicide in people with TD.
No studies comparing VMAT-2 inhibitors or high-quality tetrabenazine data that could be compared across studies were available.
