Could compression therapy with bandage raise your blood pressure?

Up to 1% of adults will suffer from leg ulceration (leg sores) at some time.
The majority of leg ulcers come from issues within veins. They are caused by high pressure in the veins due to blockage or weakness of the valves in the veins of the leg that prevent backflow or reverse blood flow.
Prevention and treatment of venous ulcers is aimed at reducing the pressure. This is achieved by removing or repairing the veins. It can also be achieved by applying compression material to reduce vein pressure.
Most venous ulcers are healed using compression bandages.
Once healed, they often recur or reappear. Therefore, it is common to continue applying compression in the form of bandages, tights, stockings, or socks to prevent recurrence.
Compression bandages or hosiery (tights, stockings, socks) are often applied for ulcer prevention.
The aim of this study was to assess (measure) the effects of compression hosiery (socks, stockings, tights) or bandages in preventing the recurrence of venous ulcers.
The study also aimed to determine whether there is an optimum pressure/type of compression to prevent recurrence of venous ulcers.
None of the reviewed reports compared recurrence rates with and without compression.
One trial (300 patients) compared high compression hosiery with moderate compression hosiery.
No significant reduction in recurrence at five years follow up was associated with high compression hosiery when compared with moderate compression hosiery.
This may underestimate the effectiveness of the high compression hosiery as a large proportion of people changed from high compression to medium compression hosiery.
Compliance rates, or the amount of people who used compression consistently, were higher with medium compression than with high compression hosiery.
One trial found no difference in recurrence between two types of medium compression hosiery.
Both trials reported that not wearing compression hosiery was strongly associated with ulcer recurrence. This is circumstantial evidence that compression reduces ulcer recurrence.
No studies that evaluated compression bandages for preventing ulcer recurrence were found.
The authors concluded on several points following this evidence review. First, no trials compared compression with no compression for prevention of reoccurring ulcers.
Second, not wearing compression was associated with ulcer reoccurrence.
This is circumstantial evidence of the benefit of compression in reducing recurrence.
Third, recurrence rates may be lower if patients wear high compression hosiery over medium compression hosiery. Because of this, patients should be offered the strongest compression they can tolerate.
Lastly, further studies are needed to understand the effectiveness of hosiery utilized in alternative locations.
