Could compression therapy with bandage raise your blood pressure?

Long-lasting or chronic heart failure (CHF) results in a significant risk of leg oedema. Leg oedema is swelling due to excess fluid accumulation in the body.
Medical compression (MC) treatment is a basic method to eliminate leg oedema in patients with chronic venous disease (abnormal veins) and lymphedema (swelling). However, it is not routinely considered in subjects with CHF-related swelling.
This study is an overview of evidence related to the benefits and risk of using MC in the treatment of leg oedema in CHF patients.
This paper reviews research published in English up until December 2019. The reviewed paper focused on the management of leg swelling through the use of MC within CHF patients. All reviewed papers were evaluated for treatment efficacy and safety.
In studies of CHF populations, several treatment options were used. These options include manual lymphatic drainage, MC stocking, multilayer bandaged, and electric calf stimulations.
The current evidence is based on non-randomized studies, small study cohorts, as well as very diverse populations.
Intermittent pneumatic compression is a treatment that uses a device that squeezes fluids from an infected area. The treatment in CHF patients significantly increased pressure in the lungs and heart. The treatment decreased systemic vascular resistance, or the resistance that must be overcome to push blood through veins, in most patients without the disease worsening.
Human atrial natriuretic peptide, a substance in the body that reduces fluid volume, increased in patients without clinical exacerbation or pain.
Use of multilayer bandages in patients significantly increased the right arterial (section of the heart) pressure. Use of multilayer bandages also lead to deterioration of heart chamber function.
In the manual lymphatic drainage study, aside from reducing leg size, no clinical worsening was observed.
In a trial study performed in a small cohort of CHF patients, electrical calf stimulation resulted in reduced lean mass of the legs without cardiac function worsening.
The use of local leg compression within CHF patients could be considered. Use of local leg compression did not decompensate heart function in patients with either CHF-related oedema or concomitant (accompanying) diseases leading to leg swelling.
The use of MC in more severe classes of CHF should be further studied to select the safest and most efficient compression method. The patients who would benefit most from MC treatment should also be identified.
