How often should i have a bone density test?

By 2020, about 12.3 million people in the United States older than 50 years are expected to have osteoporosis, a condition in which bones become weak and brittle.
Broken bones from osteoporosis, especially hip breaks, are related to a limited ability to walk, long-term pain and disability, loss of independence, and reduced quality of life. 21% to 30% of people who break a hip die within 1 year.
The number of people during a specific period with primary osteoporosis (i.e., osteoporosis not resulting from other disease), goes up with age and changes depending on race/ethnicity.
With the U.S. population getting older, the possible cost of preventable disease is expected to go up in the future.
We aim to update a 2011 expert panel suggestion on checking for osteoporosis.
The expert panel looked at scientific studies on checking for and treatment of bone breaks due to osteoporosis in men and women, and tools to measure risk, periods between checks, and how well checks and treatment work in smaller groups.
The group that was checked for osteoporosis was women who had gone through menopause (a point in time 12 months after the last period) and older men who had never had a known bone break due to osteoporosis and no known conditions or drug use known to cause osteoporosis.
The expert panel found strong proof that bone measurement tests are correct for finding osteoporosis and predicting bone breaks due to osteoporosis in women and men.
The expert panel found some proof that tools to measure risk are somewhat correct in finding risk of osteoporosis and bone breaks due to osteoporosis.
The expert panel found strong proof that drugs decrease later bone break rates in women who have gone through menopause.
The expert panel found there is not enough proof to measure how well drugs work to decrease later bone break rates in men without previous bone breaks.
The expert panel suggests checking for osteoporosis with bone measurement testing to prevent bone breaks from osteoporosis in women 65 years and older.
The expert panel suggests checking for osteoporosis with bone measurement testing to prevent bone breaks from osteoporosis in women younger than 65 years who have gone through menopause who have a greater risk of osteoporosis, as decided by a tool used by doctors to measure risk.
The expert panel concludes there is not enough data to measure the pros versus cons of checking for osteoporosis to prevent bone breaks from osteoporosis in men.

