How often should i have a bone density test?

Current guidelines disagree or do not exist for how long to wait between checks and treatment check-ins involving the use of dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans, a technique used by doctors to measure a patient's risk of osteoporosis (a condition in which bones become weak and brittle).
A campaign to avoid unnecessary medical tests, treatments and procedures does not suggest DXA scans within 2 years of the first test.
How often and for which patient characteristics doctors order repeat scans is unclear.
We aim to estimate the number of people at risk who develop osteoporosis over a period and predictors of repeat DXA for checks and treatment check-ins in a healthcare facility.

We studied 5992 women aged 40-84 years who underwent DXA scans to check for osteoporosis from 2006 to 2011 at a healthcare facility in Sacramento, CA.
Main test scores included two- and five-year amounts and risks of repeat DXA by initial test results (classified into three groups: low or high risk of worsening to osteoporosis, or osteoporosis) and whether women were given osteoporosis drugs after the first DXA.
For women not treated after a first DXA, 2-year amounts for low-risk, high-risk, and osteoporotic women were 8.0%, 13.8%, and 19.6%, respectively, increasing to 42.9%, 60.4%, and 57.4% by 5 years after the first screening.
For treated women, average time to repeat DXA was over 3 years for all groups.
Compared to women with low-risk initial DXA, high-risk initial DXA significantly led to repeat screening for untreated women but not within the treated group.
Conclusions: Repeat DXA screening was common in women both at low and high risk of worsening to osteoporosis, with a large amount of women receiving repeat scans within 2 years of initial screening.
On the other hand, only 60% of those at high-risk of worsening or progression to osteoporosis were re-screened within 5 years.
Treatments are needed to help clinicians make better decisions regarding repeat use of DXA scans.
