How is strep throat treated?

Diagnosing group A strep throat (Strep A) by a physical exam is difficult, and diagnosing it incorrectly may lead to use of the wrong antibiotic.
Doctors should suggest treatments that improve symptoms to people with sore throat because most do not want antibiotics.
We looked at two studies on how well flurbiprofen 8.75 mg lozenge works and how safe it is in people with and without strep throat.
We studied adults with moderate-to-severe throat symptoms (sore throat pain, difficulty swallowing and swollen throat) and a diagnosis of strep throat.
The doctor determined how likely it was that people have Strep A infection based on the history of the patient and a physical exam.
We gave people either flurbiprofen 8.75 mg lozenges or sugar lozenges and they reported three throat symptoms (sore throat pain, difficulty swallowing and swollen throat) at the beginning of the study and regularly over 24 h.
We gave 203 people flurbiprofen 8.75 mg and 199 people sugar lozenges, for a total of 402 people.
A throat swab to find, grow, and test bacteria in the throat found Strep A in 10% of people and group C strep (Strep C) in 14% of people.
The doctors correctly diagnosed Strep A in 11 of 40 cases.
People had greater symptom relief with one flurbiprofen lozenge than one sugar lozenge for three throat symptoms (sore throat pain, difficulty swallowing and swollen throat), lasting 3-4 h for people with and without Strep A or C.
People with Strep A or C may have some symptom relief with more than one flurbiprofen lozenge over 24 h.
There were no serious side effects.
We conclude that the studies emphasize the difficulty of identifying Strep A based on signs and symptoms.
With the growing problem of bacteria able to defeat the antibiotics designed to kill them, treatments that are not antibiotics should be considered.
As shown here, flurbiprofen 8.75 mg lozenges work, giving immediate and long-lasting symptom relief in people with and without Strep A or C infection.
