What causes pitted edema in legs?

In this study, leg edema (fluid swelling) is studied to understand how frequently it occurs and its associated risk factors. Leg edema is observed on a detailed evaluation of older and frail people called the comprehensive geriatric (elderly) assessment of 142 elderly outpatients with a variety of chronic diseases.
The severity of pitting edema, a condition where excess fluid builds up in one part of the body and pressing into the swollen area leaves a pit or indentation, is assessed at 3 places: the shins, the bony bump on the inside of the ankle, and the top part of the foot that faces up when standing.
When pressing on the swollen area, edema is graded as 0 to 3 for each point on one leg, the sum of which was used as the edema score.
According to the edema score, patients are divided into 3 groups; the moderate to severe group, the slight to mild group, and the group without pitting edema.
The moderate to severe group is defined as having an edema score of 4 or more or edema of grade 2 or more, while the slight to mild group is defined as having an edema score of 2 to 3 points without edema of grade 2 or more.
The following tests and measurements are compared among the 3 groups: the status of underlying disease, risks to developing heart problems, varicose (twisted, enlarged) veins, medications, daily activity, nutrition, tests for proteins in the body, and tests for how well the kidneys are working.
There are 36 patients in the moderate to severe group and 19 subjects in the slight to mild group.
Diabetes, an irregular heart beat (atrial fibrillation), varicose veins, and being on multiple drugs at one time are more frequent in the moderate to severe group than in the comparison group.
Sedentary life style (no or little physical activity), house-bound, and walking trouble are much more frequent in the moderate to severe and slight to mild groups.
There are no significant differences in the scores on malnourishment (poor nutrition) among the groups, although both the body weight and calf circumference (size) in the moderate to severe group are much greater than those in the group without pitting edema.
Low levels of total protein in the blood, another protein made by liver called albumin, and kidney function tests are seen in the moderate to severe group as well as high levels of a protein made by heart and blood vessels called BNP.
Data analysis revealed diabetes, varicose veins, sedentarism (inactivity), and low levels of the protein albumin as risk factors associated with leg edema.
In conclusion, leg edema is frequent in the elderly outpatients and is associated strongly with diabetes, varicose veins, sedentarism, and low levels of albumin in the blood.
These findings suggest that advising against an inactive life style could help resolve edema, and also indicates the usefulness of comprehensive geriatric assessment to evaluate older populations.
Furthermore, leg edema should be seriously considered along with evaluating the diet of patients because edema could influence various physical measurements of the body.
