What causes pitted edema in legs?

Doctors saw an elderly male patient who after heart surgery had pitting edema in both legs, a condition where excess fluid builds up in part of the body and pressing into the swollen area leaves a pit or indentation. The man also had painful leg joints after a 1-month history of periodic changes in joint stiffness.
His family doctor had prescribed a combination of diuretics, medicines that help remove salt and water from the body; however, pitting edema in his lower legs continued.
He was diagnosed with worsening of congestive heart failure (inefficient heart pumping) because of a previous heart surgery and transferred to the hospital.
On admission to the hospital, doctors closely observed the patient's condition and noticed that his body temperature increased to 100.4 F (38.0 C) every evening.
Additionally, his ankle joints felt feverish and were swollen.
Therefore, doctors suspected arthritis in at least five joints (polyarthritis) as a potential cause, although doctors first thought it was rheumatoid arthritis (RA - a long-lasting arthritis from immune cells attacking healthy cells).
Testing did not support a rheumatoid arthritis diagnosis; therefore, doctors concluded the association of remitting seronegative symmetrical synovitis with pitting edema (RS3PE) syndrome with his condition. RS3PE is a rare disease with swollen joints and pitting edema.
After daily treatment with a steroid medication called prednisolone, the edema symptom greatly improved.
The concept of RS3PE syndrome could explain such as an impressive clinical result.
Doctors encounter patients with pitting edema of unknown cause in daily clinical practice.
In particular, heart specialists (cardiologists) usually tend to prescribe diuretics for patients with pitting edema in their legs.
Cardiologists should consider RS3PE syndrome as a differential (potential) diagnosis, for patients with pitting edema in one location in their limbs.
This report cautions prescribing diuretics for localized pitting edema.
