What causes pitted edema in legs?

Lipedema is a common condition where there is too much fat in the arms and legs and is found mainly in women, usually occurring after puberty (when a child's body changes to become an adult) or pregnancy.
Lipedema can progress to include lipo-lymphedema, which is a build up of fluid in addition to excess fat, in the ankles and feet.
This report is of a 41-year old woman with Stage 3 lipedema and lipo-lymphedema with excessive fat of the lower body since puberty. The woman's condition has advanced to swollen ankles and feet despite being on a low calorie diet.
The 41-year-old woman noticed increased fat in her legs since age 12.
Her weight and leg size increased until age 21, when she reached a maximum weight of 364 pounds (165 kg), and had a procedure called gastric bypass that involves a doctor placing a small pouch in the stomach and food only goes into that pouch.
Over 12 months, she lost 165 pounds (74.8 kg).
Her trunk (chest, stomach, and back) significantly reduced in weight, but her legs did not.
Fifteen years later, during recovery from surgery, she became continuously weaker and swollen over her entire body.
Lab test results showed hypoalbuminemia (low levels of the albumin protein in the blood), making it harder to move substances in the body. Tests also show low levels of white blood cells and low levels of fat lipids in the blood.
She was not eating enough protein and energy (through calories) to meet nutritional needs with edema (swelling) in the stomach, requiring that more nutrition be given through the vein.
After restoring protein to normal levels, her health returned and her pitting edema due to excess fluid resolved, but her arms and legs remained enlarged.
She was later diagnosed with lipedema.
In conclusion, this report shows that early and correct diagnosis of lipedema is important. Women who believe the condition is due to obesity may suffer from not enough calorie or protein-calories in an attempt to lose weight.
