What causes pitted edema in legs?

Leg edema is a common side effect of dihydropyridine Calcium Channel Blockers (CCB), medicines taken to control blood pressure and other conditions. The dose amount of CBB drugs may need to be reduced or stopped, negatively impacting the drugs' use to control blood pressure.
Leg edema (fluid swelling) is reported to occur less often with a type of CBB medicine called (S)-amlodipine compared to the regular racemic amlodipine medicine.
Researchers aim to find the number of times leg edema appeared and how well blood pressure is lowered with (S)-amlodipine compared to conventional amlodipine.
This clinical trial followed 172 patients with high blood pressure, not controlled by using beta-blockers (BB) drugs or angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin receptor blockers (ACEI/ARB) that keep blood vessels open. These patients are randomly placed in groups to receive either standard amlodipine (86 patients) or (S)-amlodipine (86 patients), while continuing their previous anti-hypertensive medications.
The number of patients in this study is sufficient to find a difference in edema between the two groups.
Data from both treatment groups are analyzed during the study.
Data are analyzed to observe the difference between the two groups on how they responded to the treatment and the number of people who develop peripheral edema (swelling in lower legs and hands).
Pitting edema, a condition where excess fluid builds up in one part of the body and pressing into the swollen area leaves a pit or indentation, is measured and scored.
Altogether 146 patients completed 120 days treatment: 76 patients in the standard amlodipine group and 70 in the (S)-amlodipine group.
Characteristics such as age and sex and how well patients took the medicine as directed are compared between the two groups.
New edema is 31.40 % in the (S)-amlodipine group and 46.51 % in the standard group.
Pitting edema score and patient rated edema score increase significantly in the amlodipine compared to (S)-amlodipine group after the treatment period.
Edema scores increase significantly in the amlodipine group from the start of the study.
Responders in blood pressure are 98.57 % in (S)-amlodipine and 98.68 % in amlodipine group.
Most common side effects are pitting edema and increase in urinary frequency.
Number of all side effects other than edema is similar in both groups.
Two serious side effects occur that are unrelated to therapy.
Results from other blood and heart tests in the two groups are similar.
In patients with high blood pressure not controlled on prior BB and ACEI/ARB therapy, adding (S)-amlodipine besylate at half the dose of standard amlodipine provides few side effects. There is also a reduced number of peripheral edema, and equal ability to lower blood pressure compared to amlodipine given at usual doses.
