What level of gene expression from transcription to protein does turner syndrome impact?

Background: Turner syndrome (TS) is a sex chromosome aneuploidy with a variable spectrum of symptoms including short stature, ovarian failure and skeletal abnormalities.
The etiology of TS is complex, and the mechanisms driving its pathogenesis remain unclear.
Methods: In our study, we used the online Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) microarray expression profiling dataset GSE46687 to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between monosomy X TS patients and normal female individuals.
The relevant data on 26 subjects with TS (45,XO) and 10 subjects with the normal karyotype (46,XX) was investigated.
Then, tissue-specific gene expression, functional enrichment, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were performed, and the key modules were identified.
Results: In total, 25 upregulated and 60 downregulated genes were identified in the differential expression analysis.
The tissue-specific gene expression analysis of the DEGs revealed that the system with the most highly enriched tissue-specific gene expression was the hematologic/immune system, followed by the skin/skeletal muscle and neurologic systems.
The PPI network analysis, construction of key modules and manual screening of tissue-specific gene expression resulted in the identification of the following five genes of interest: CD99, CSF2RA, MYL9, MYLPF, and IGFBP2.
CD99 and CSF2RA are involved in the hematologic/immune system, MYL9 and MYLPF are related to the circulatory system, and IGFBP2 is related to skeletal abnormalities.
In addition, several genes of interest with possible roles in the pathogenesis of TS were identified as being associated with the hematologic/immune system or metabolism.
Conclusion: This discovery-driven analysis may be a useful method for elucidating novel mechanisms underlying TS.
However, more experiments are needed to further explore the relationships between these genes and TS in the future.
